composition of the stone itself. Please see StatPearls' companion resource, "[24-Hour Urine Testing for Nephrolithiasis: Interpretation and Treatment Guidelines](https://www.statpearls.com/point-of-care/40765)," for more information. For pheochromocytoma (metanephrine) urine testing, it is recommended that patients avoid food, caffeine, smoking, and strenuous exercise for 8 to 12 hours before sample collection. Many medications can interfere with metanephrine levels, leading to false positives. Drugs such as acetaminophen, tricyclic antidepressants (eg, amitriptyline), serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (eg, buspirone), alpha-blockers (eg, tamsulosin), haloperidol, labetalol, levodopa, lamotrigine, aripiprazole, and possibly selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors can elevate plasma and urine metanephrines. Notably, it is estimated that drug interference causes up to 20% of false-positive results, with tricyclic antidepressants and the alpha-blocker phenoxybenzamine accounting for up to 45% of these cases. Therefore, when possible, these medications should be discontinued 10 to 14 days before testing.[8][13] ## Diagnostic Tests Various laboratories offer 24-hour urine testing, providing clinicians with detailed reports that stratify stone risk based on laboratory data. Typically, 24-hour urine tests for nephrolithiasis evaluation include measurements of urinary volume, pH, calcium, citrate, magnesium, phosphate, sulfate, oxalate, and uric acid. Supersaturation ratios for different stone types can then be calculated. In patients with a history of cystine stones or a positive cystine cyanide test, 24-hour cystine levels can also be assessed.[14][15] Finding or selecting a laboratory to process 24-hour urine chemistries can be challenging. Ideally, all tests should be completed at a single laboratory, and the results should be presented clearly, including both 24-hour totals and relative concentrations. While normal values provide a baseline, they may not represent "optimal" values for patients with nephrolithiasis. Therefore, normal urinary chemistry reference values for each lab should be reported alongside the results. ## Testing Procedures The primary techniques for evaluating serum, plasma, and urine creatinine levels include enzymatic assays, colorimetric assays using alkaline picrate, and high-performance liquid chromatography. Colorimetric and enzymatic assays are also commonly used to measure urea concentration. Most of these methods use urease and a coupled enzyme that utilizes ammonia as a substrate.[16] Proteins are usually measured using mass spectrometry coupled with liquid chromatography. Less commonly, antibodies or deoxyribonucleic aptamers are used to bind specific proteins. Detecting posttranslational modifications can be more challenging; methods such as colorimetric assays, radioactive isotope-labeled substrates, Western blotting with protein-specific antibodies, and peptide and protein arrays are also used.[17] Plasma and urine metanephrines are metabolites of epinephrine and norepinephrine. Metanephrines are relatively stable compared to catecholamines and