of the elective surgery. - If the patient has recently undergone placement of a drug-eluting stent, open aneurysm surgery should be delayed for at least 6 months or endovascular surgery can be performed while the patient is still on dual antiplatelet therapy. - Advise smoking cessation for at least 2 weeks before AAA repair. - Consider transfusion of packer red blood cells perioperatively if the hemoglobin level is less than 7 g/dL. - Elective repair should be recommended for low-risk male patients when the abdominal aortic aneurysm reaches 5.5 cm in diameter and 5-5.4 cm in maximal diameter in women. - If the patient has suitable anatomy and reasonable life expectancy, endovascular aneurysm repair is the preferred modality for unruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. - For a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm, a facility with a door-to-intervention time of less than 90 minutes is preferred. - For perioperative pain management, a multimodal approach is recommended, including consideration of epidural analgesia for postoperative pain after open AAA repair. - Assessment of distal leg pulses at each postoperative clinic visit to monitor the patency of the graft limbs is recommended. - Color duplex ultrasonography may be used for postoperative surveillance after endovascular surgery if it provides suitable imaging; otherwise, CT scan can be used. - Treatment of types I and III endoleaks and type II endoleaks with aneurysm expansion are recommended. - Antibiotic prophylaxis is recommended to prevent aortic graft infection before any dental procedure that involves manipulating the gingival or periapical region of the teeth or perforating the oral mucosa. - Antibiotic prophylaxis to prevent aortic graft infection is recommended in immunocompromised individuals or those at risk for infection before respiratory tract, genitourinary, dermatologic, gastrointestinal, or orthopedic procedures. - The endovascular procedure should only be performed in a hospital that conducts at least 10 cases yearly and has a conversion rate to open repair of less than 2%. - Elective abdominal aortic aneurysm open surgery should be performed in hospitals with a mortality of less than 5% and at least 10 open cases conducted annually. ## Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis for abdominal aortic aneurysm includes mesenteric ischemia, peptic ulcer disease, diverticulitis, pyelonephritis, myocardial infarction, and ureteric colic.[27] ## Prognosis Once an abdominal aortic aneurysm ruptures, the prognosis is grim. More than 50% of patients succumb before they reach the emergency room, and those who do survive have very high morbidity. Predictors