United States.[6] In a study completed from 2010 to 2012, almost half of all firearm deaths in the United States occurred in the South and were lowest in the Northeast region. Internationally, war-inflicted countries have increased the incidence of gunshot abdominal injury due to more firearms being available. Racial disparities in firearm-related homicide and suicide do exist. The homicide rate is 7 fold higher in Black males than any other demographic. Also, it is notable that non-Hispanic whites and non-Hispanic American Indian/Alaskan natives account for the majority of suicides related to firearms. Young adults between the ages of 25 and 34 years have the highest rate of fatal firearm injury and approximately 90% of patients are males. The male age group of 20–24 years old is notably the most affected by firearm injury. Males disproportionately bear the burden of firearm mortality, accounting for 86% of all victims of firearm death. ## Pathophysiology Abdominal gunshot wounds can result in severe traumatic internal injury. This includes multisystem organ injury, hemoperitoneum, and life-threatening internal bleeding. Since bullet trajectory is often unpredictable, penetrating abdominal injury can be potentially catastrophic if there is significant vascular injury. Knowledge of ballistics, the science of the motion of projectiles in flight, may help in determining characteristics of injuries that might be expected from a given gunshot wound. ## History and Physical The history of a penetrating abdominal trauma during the initial presentation of the patient to the emergency department is crucial to providing clues to the pattern of injury. Taking a detailed and thorough history of the patient may guide potential management. Personnel such as paramedics, police officers, or fire rescue who may have arrived at the scene of the injury may be utilized as sources of essential history regarding the etiology of the injury. This is especially important if the patient has altered mental status and is unable to relay the history of the incident. It is beneficial to gather information regarding the events surrounding the injury, including the environment, people involved, allergies, medications, and past medical history of the patient. Information about the caliber of the weapon, the number of shots heard, and any other extenuating circumstances may provide additional valuable information. Additionally, efforts should be made to ensure provider safety by hospital security and law enforcement until the circumstances of the injury are fully understood. Physical exam following the ABCs of trauma is essential. Because