apply to the area affected, but this is less likely with abdominal gunshot wounds than extremity wounds. If, when assessing vital signs, the patient is no longer breathing or loses pulses, the protocol of CPR should be initiated immediately. For patients with hemodynamic instability, aggressive fluid resuscitation should be initiated, and blood should be typed and screened. O negative blood should be made ready for an emergency transfusion, with it being the lower risk of causing serious adverse transfusion reactions.[8] Massive transfusion protocol, where available, may be initiated in the hemodynamically unstable patient. All patients with abdominal gunshot wounds who have signs of peritoneal hemorrhage, peritonitis, active bleeding, or deteriorating clinical signs must immediately undergo diagnostic and potentially therapeutic laparotomy.[9] Non-surgical treatment is much less invasive but must depend on the discretion of the evaluating healthcare professional based on clinical and radiologic evidence. Timely surgical evaluation or transfer to a facility with surgical capability is often necessary. Some pharmacologic considerations may include tetanus prophylaxis, broad-spectrum antibiotics, analgesics, and anxiolytics.[10] Once hemodynamic stability has been achieved, it is imperative that abdominal gunshot wound patients be closely monitored for any signs of vital sign changes. Medical professionals should also perform a serial physical examination, and blood analysis to trend hemodynamic features return to baseline. ## Differential Diagnosis The initial differential should include an evaluation to determine if the injury is penetrating or non-penetrating. For penetrating injuries, one must include a differential diagnosis that includes a gunshot wound, a stab wound, or another mechanism of penetrating injury. History of the event may be helpful when attempting to narrow the differential diagnosis for penetrating abdominal injury. ## Prognosis The prognostic success of early goal-directed management of abdominal gunshot wounds is of most importance. Still, it is mainly based on the severity and extent of the injury and the time of presentation to the hospital. The usual management of abdominal gunshot wounds involves supportive measures such as hemostasis techniques, blood transfusions, cardiopulmonary support, and surgical attention to injured intraperitoneal structures damaged structures and an attempt to remove foreign objects.[11] Timely surgical intervention may influence mortality and morbidity. Unfortunately, the mortality from abdominal gunshot wounds remains very high. The reason is that the severity of the gunshot wound may vary due to bullet caliber, the trajectory of the object in the body cavity, and energy transfer into the destruction of the penetrating structures. A study was