the most common aneurysms of the aorta. Screening ultrasound has helped in the detection of abdominal aortic aneurysms and allows for surveillance in asymptomatic individuals with a diameter of less than 5 cm. In women, the repair should be considered at 5 cm, and in men, at 5.5 cm. If rapid enlargement is demonstrated (>5 mm over 6 months), repair should be considered. Educating healthcare professionals, including first responders, nurse practitioners, triage nurses, primary care clinicians, physician assistants, and emergency department clinicians, can facilitate diagnosis and reduce delays in treatment. An interprofessional team approach involving clinicians including emergency nurses and clinicians, intensivists, radiologists, and vascular surgeons will facilitate rapid evaluation and treatment and improve outcomes. Most patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm initially present to the emergency department with vague abdominal pain or a pulsatile mass. Thus, the triage nurse must be familiar with the presentation of an abdominal aortic aneurysm and initiate a rapid admission with direct communication to the emergency department clinician and the full interprofessional team about the patient. Once admitted, if stable, these patients require an urgent ultrasound; therefore, the radiologist should be notified. If the patient is unstable, the nurse should obtain vital signs, attach monitoring equipment, and assist with resuscitation if the patient is hemodynamically unstable. Referral to a vascular center capable of providing a standard-of-care management is appropriate. Once the decision for repair has been made, conducting a cardiology workup, obtaining clearance, and optimizing other medical comorbidities can improve outcomes. If the aneurysm is small, the interprofessional team should educate the patient and family about the importance of blood pressure control, a healthy diet, regular exercise, smoking cessation, and follow-up appointment adherence. During postoperative care, the nurse must be familiar with potential complications of the surgery and notify the interprofessional team if the patient has abdominal or back pain, wound discharge, fever, oliguria, or hypotension. The nurse should also ensure the patient has prophylaxis to prevent deep vein thrombosis. The respiratory therapist should encourage deep breathing and coughing, and the physical therapist should encourage ambulation. The nurse should also auscultate for bowel sounds and convey the results to the interprofessional team to initiate feeding. Before discharge, the pharmacist and nurse should educate the patient on the importance of medication compliance, blood pressure control, and tobacco avoidance. The nurse should also ensure that the appropriate consulting clinician, dietitian, or social workers have spoken to the