the vessel, enlarging by at least 150% compared to the relatively normal diameter of the adjacent artery.[1] An abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is an abnormal focal dilation of the abdominal aorta. This life-threatening condition requires monitoring or treatment depending on the size of the aneurysm and associated symptoms. The AAA may be detected incidentally or at the time of rupture. ## Etiology Risk factors for AAAs include atherosclerosis (the most common), smoking, advanced age, male sex, White race, family history of AAA, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and prior history of aortic dissection. Other causes include cystic medial necrosis, syphilis, human immunodeficiency virus, and connective tissue diseases (Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, Marfan syndrome, and Loeys-Dietz syndrome). Those of the non White race and those with diabetes are associated with a reduced risk for AAA. Enlargement of the aneurysm can occur in a step-wise manner, with size remaining stable for some time before experiencing a rapid enlargement. The enlargement rate for small abdominal aortic aneurysms (3-5 cm) is 0.2 to 0.3 cm/year; this can range from 0.3 to 0.5 cm/year for those with a diameter greater than 5 cm.[2] The pressure on the aortic wall follows the law of Laplace (wall stress is proportional to the radius of the aneurysm). Accordingly, larger aneurysms are at a higher risk of rupture, and the presence of hypertension also increases this risk. ## Epidemiology Based on autopsy studies, the frequency of these aneurysms varies from 0.5% to 3%. The incidence of AAAs increases after age 60 and peaks in the seventh and eighth decades of life. White men have the highest risk of developing AAAs, whereas they are relatively uncommon in Asian, Black, and Hispanic individuals.[3] Data derived from Life Line Screening and the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES, 2003-2006) database reveal a prevalence of 1.4% in individuals aged 50 to 84, equivalent to 1.1 million AAAs studied.[4] With the increased use of ultrasound, diagnosis of AAA is common. Diagnosis are common in smokers and older White men. Although autopsy studies may under-represent the incidence of AAA, results from a study conducted in Malmo, Sweden revealed a prevalence of 4.3% in men and 2.1% in women as detected by ultrasound.[5] ## Pathophysiology AAAs tend to occur when there is a failure of the structural proteins of the aorta. What causes these proteins to fail is unknown, but the aortic wall gradually weakens. The decrease in structural proteins