(RUQ) - when evaluating this region, the evaluator must consider that if the hemorrhage is present within the peritoneum, is most commonly found within the RUQ. The anatomical structures found within a right upper quadrant include: - Inferior pole of the right kidney - Subphrenic space (between diaphragm and liver) - Hepatorenal space (between liver and kidney, also known as Morrison's pouch) - Pleural space 2\. Left upper quadrant (LUQ) - the anatomical structures visualized in the LUQ space, also known as the peri-splenic space, include: - Inferior pole of the left kidney - Subphrenic space - Splenorenal space - Pleural space 3\. Suprapubic space - the anatomical structures visualized in the suprapubic space vary based on gender: - Pouch of Douglas (females) - Rectovesicle space (males) 4\. Subcostal space - visualize the pericardium and evaluate for hemopericardium. 5\. Pulmonary - visualize the space surrounding the lung for pneumothorax or hemothorax It is essential to note in patients that have penetrating abdominal gunshot wounds and peritonitis and/or hemodynamic instability, the mainstay is an operative intervention, and this operative intervention should not be delayed to obtain diagnostic testing. ## Treatment / Management Treatment of patients with abdominal gunshot injury begins with the initial contact of personnel who arrive at the scene of injury, such as paramedics. In penetrating abdominal injury due to a gunshot wound, initial treatment can be paramount for the prognosis and survival of the victim. The most important task for the initial assessment is to assess the airway, breathing, and circulation of the patient and stop the bleeding. Once a clear airway is established, the cervical spine must be protected if indicated by the mechanism of injury. Assessment of breath sounds is essential as the location of the wound on the abdomen does not rule out injuries to structures outside of the abdomen. Efforts to obtain hemostasis before arriving at the emergency room may entail pressure on the wound. Depending on materials available, gauze, shirts, towels, and any other fabrics can be applied with pressure to aid in coagulation. A tourniquet may be utilized if a professional can apply to the area affected, but this is less likely with abdominal gunshot wounds than extremity wounds. If, when assessing vital signs, the patient is no longer breathing or loses pulses, the protocol of CPR should be initiated immediately. For patients with hemodynamic instability, aggressive fluid resuscitation should be initiated,