and morbidity. Unfortunately, the mortality from abdominal gunshot wounds remains very high. The reason is that the severity of the gunshot wound may vary due to bullet caliber, the trajectory of the object in the body cavity, and energy transfer into the destruction of the penetrating structures. A study was published on trauma patients in Philadelphia who experienced penetrating trauma due to penetrating stab wound or gunshot wounds to analyze mortality rates between 2003 and 2007 of patients entering the Philadelphia hospitals. This study reports that of the 4,122 patients taken to eight Level I and Level II adult trauma centers, 2,961 were transported by EMS and 1,161 by the police, and carried an overall mortality rate was 27.4 percent. In this study, about 77.9% of these victims endured gunshot wounds, and about 22.1% endured wounds due to stabbing. Approximately one-third of patients with gunshot wounds expired, and approximately 7.7% died of complications due to stab wounds.[12] ## Complications - Exsanguination - Inadequate resuscitation - Airway collapse - Peritonitis - Intra-abdominal sepsis - Fistula formation - Wound dehiscence - Hematoma - Scarring - Infection - Death ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care Postoperative care is directed by the injuries identified at the time of operation. Analgesia is a necessary component of postoperative care. Early consideration of enteral nutrition is also important when feasible. Deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis is another consideration in the postoperative abdominal gunshot wound patient. ## Consultations The following consultations are required: - Emergency medicine - General surgery - Trauma surgery - Radiology - Anesthesia - Forensic pathology ## Pearls and Other Issues Mortality rates have substantially decreased in the last two decades as trauma centers have streamlined the approach to diagnosis and management. However, abdominal gunshot wounds are, unfortunately, still extremely common in the US. Healthcare professionals have the opportunity to emphasize safe practices regarding firearms. As part of the society as a collective unit, the healthcare system can be intentional with patients and families in society to emphasize prevention and decreased violence regarding weapons such as firearms. Educational messages such as the danger of firearms and how they should be safely used and stored can be promoted. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes The mortality rate from abdominal gunshot wounds remains high due to the high-velocity, penetrating abdominal trauma, and potential shock from damage to organs and intraperitoneal vascular extravasation. Most of the overall mortality due to the