weapon, the number of shots heard, and any other extenuating circumstances may provide additional valuable information. Additionally, efforts should be made to ensure provider safety by hospital security and law enforcement until the circumstances of the injury are fully understood. Physical exam following the ABCs of trauma is essential. Because the presentation is often not straightforward, the exact diagnosis can be difficult. Besides pain, the patient may present with bleeding per rectum, unstable vital signs, and the presence of peritonitis. The physical exam may reveal wounds, ecchymosis, abdominal distention, absent bowel sounds, and tenderness to palpation. If peritonitis is present, abdominal rigidity, guarding, and rebound tenderness may be present. Early and serial monitoring of vital signs can be helpful to determine shock either at presentation or developing during the evaluation. A comprehensive external exam looking for wounds is an essential part of the evaluation of a patient with an abdominal gunshot wound. ## Evaluation The evaluation of any trauma patient begins with evaluating the airway, accessing the breathing, and managing the circulation. The diagnosis of intra-abdominal injury following penetrating trauma depends primarily on the initial presentation and hemodynamic status of the patient. If hemodynamic stability can be established, in the absence of peritonitis, a computed technography (CT) scan is a feasible option. This scan is able to detect intraperitoneal free fluid, solid organ damage, and active serosanguinous extravasation if present. If the patient is potentially hemodynamically unstable and rapidly deteriorating, the ideal initial radiologic assessment is the Extended Focused Assessment with Sonography for Trauma (EFAST). This EFAST exam is a point of care ultrasound for critically ill patients. It is a comprehensive tool that specifically targets the detection of hemorrhage in the spaces of the abdomen. With experience, trained health care professionals learn to quickly assess and identify pathologic states in pleural, peritoneal, and pericardial cavities of the body. Indications for an EFAST ultrasound include blunt or penetrating trauma to the torso where there is a suspicion of intraperitoneal hemorrhage, pericardial tamponade, and hemothorax.[7] **Components of the extended focused assessment with sonography for trauma (EFAST) ultrasound** 1\. Right upper quadrant (RUQ) - when evaluating this region, the evaluator must consider that if the hemorrhage is present within the peritoneum, is most commonly found within the RUQ. The anatomical structures found within a right upper quadrant include: - Inferior pole of the right kidney - Subphrenic space (between diaphragm and liver)