over 6 months, or if it becomes symptomatic. Thus, according to recent guidelines from the European Society for Vascular Surgery, AAA repair is recommended if the aneurysm is symptomatic and greater than 4 cm, and has increased in size by greater than 1 cm/year, as measured by the inner-to-inner maximum anterior-posterior aortic diameter on ultrasound.[18] Open surgical repair using the transabdominal or retroperitoneal approach has been the gold standard. Endovascular repair using a femoral arterial approach is now applied for most repairs, especially in older and higher-risk patients. Endovascular therapy is recommended for patients with cardiovascular or other comorbidities that deem them at high risk for open surgery if they have suitable anatomy. A ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm warrants emergency repair. If the anatomy is suitable, the endovascular approach for ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm has shown superior results and survival rates compared to open repair, but the mortality rates remain high. See **Image**. Repaired Ruptured Aortic Aneurysm, Aortigram. The patient's age, the presence of renal failure, and the status of the cardiopulmonary system influence the risk of surgery.[19][20] In cases of horseshoe kidney, which often has multiple accessory arteries originating from the aneurysm, or when there is a concomitant iliac artery aneurysm where preservation of the hypogastric artery is necessary, and the anatomy is not suitable for an iliac branch endoprosthesis, open repair may be the most suitable option. This approach allows for reimplanting branches that an endograft would otherwise cover. The choice of a transabdominal or retroperitoneal open approach for an infrarenal aortic aneurysm depends upon the comfort level of the operator; however, access to the right renal artery and right external iliac artery is challenging from a retroperitoneal approach and may be better addressed via a transperitoneal approach. There is an advantage to the retroperitoneal approach for pararenal or suprarenal aneurysms, as the left kidney can be mobilized, improving exposure. Data show that endovascular repair has no long-term differences in outcomes for unruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms compared to open repair. However, data indicate that expansion of the neck of the aorta continues despite endovascular therapy, which can lead to device failure. This is less common when the patient's anatomic measurements are within the selected endograft device's instructions for use (IFU). The most recent 2024 European Society for Vascular Surgery (ESVS) guidelines advise against endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) outside the manufacturer's IFU in the elective setting.[16] Results from a