to device failure. This is less common when the patient's anatomic measurements are within the selected endograft device's instructions for use (IFU). The most recent 2024 European Society for Vascular Surgery (ESVS) guidelines advise against endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) outside the manufacturer's IFU in the elective setting.[16] Results from a large Vascular Quality Initiative study with 50,411 patients who had undergone EVAR AAA either with or without post-operative beta-blockers (BBs) demonstrated that patients on BBs do not have a reduced incidence of endovascular reinterventions after EVAR and have a higher mortality risk.[21] Open repair has been the gold standard for abdominal aortic aneurysm repair for many decades. This procedure involves a long midline incision followed by replacing the diseased aorta with a graft. Postoperatively, these patients need close monitoring in the intensive care unit for 24 to 48 hours. Due to the less invasive nature of EVAR, this remains the preferred approach when most patients consider it feasible. All patients with small abdominal aortic aneurysms who do not undergo repair need periodic follow-up with an ultrasound every 6 to 12 months to ensure that the aneurysm is not expanding. The size of the AAA dictates the frequency.[22] Traditionally, the anatomic eligibility for endovascular aortic aneurysm repair is based on 3 major anatomic factors—the proximal aortic neck, common iliac arteries, and external iliac arteries. The mentioned index areas characterize the proximal and distal landing zones. A successful endovascular approach is possible if the aortic measurements of these seal zones fit within the available device requirements (IFU). The outcomes are less acceptable if the anatomy does not allow for a good seal. The device is typically oversized at 10% to 20% at the aortic neck. The smallest aortic neck diameter can be treated is 16 mm, and the shortest neck length is 7 mm. Angulation greater than 60 degrees is also a limiting factor for most devices; however, newer devices that address severely angulated neck anatomy, small access vessels, and concomitant iliac artery aneurysmal involvement are now available. Extensive calcium or mural thrombus at proximal or distal seal zones remains an issue for case planning. For aneurysmal disease extending up to or proximal to the renal and visceral arteries, newly approved devices and custom-designed grafts are available, allowing for a broader application of endovascular repair for these complex cases. The endovascular approach might be utilized in managing thoracoabdominal, pararenal, and juxtarenal aneurysms.[23]