seconds. In most children, it was difficult to determine the onset and end of the event. Most parents could not regain the child’s attention by waving their hands in front of the child. Other more energetic measures like hand clapping or other loud sounds successfully stopped the events in all children. A significant percentage of children (41%) were inactive at the onset of the stare, and 18% were watching television when the event began.[19] A retrospective chart review performed in a tertiary care epilepsy center showed that among 276 patients in the epilepsy monitoring unit, only 11% were deemed to have seizures.[20] Therefore, most staring spells are nonepileptic in nature. Clinicians should be careful when patients present with staring spells and not tell parents or other providers that these episodes are “absence seizures” before EEG evaluation is completed. The study mentioned above developed a tool to determine the pretest probability of seizures in children presenting with staring spells. This tool accounts for patient variables such as results of previous EEG, previous use of antiseizure medications or treatments for psychiatric conditions, and duration of the spells.[20] ## Prognosis Typical CAE occurs in childhood and resolves by adolescence. Seizure freedom is reported in 57% to 74% of the patients. Compared with controls, the risk for accidental injuries during absence seizures is well-reported.[19] As mentioned before, these patients have problems in the areas of attention, executive function, and verbal and visuospatial memory. Difficulty with language and reading is also commonly reported. Depression, anxiety, and ADHD have also been reported more frequently in patients with CAE.[1] ## Complications Some activities can be dangerous for people with absence seizures because of the temporary loss of awareness accompanying these episodes. Swimming, operating hazardous machinery, and driving during an absence seizure might result in drowning or an accident. Patients may need to restrict certain activities until their seizures are under control. Some states may also have laws regarding how long a patient must go without a seizure before resuming driving. ## Consultations A general pediatric neurologist or a pediatric epileptologist should be consulted when a patient has staring spells suspected to be seizures. Typically, an outpatient evaluation is a reasonable first step. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Most staring spells are nonepileptic in nature. When patients present with staring spells, clinicians should explain to caregivers that the differential diagnosis includes seizures, but they should avoid giving a