spells can be epileptic or nonepileptic, with the majority being nonepileptic. When episodes are epileptic, they may be due to absence seizures or focal seizures with impaired awareness (complex partial seizures). - The first-line treatment for absence seizures is ethosuximide. Other therapies include valproate, lamotrigine, and topiramate. Second-line medications that can be used as adjunct therapy include zonisamide and levetiracetam. - Carbamazepine, phenytoin, gabapentin, vigabatrin, and other medications with similar mechanisms of action can worsen absence epilepsy. - Approximately 60% of patients with CAE eventually achieve seizure freedom. - Lack of response to ethosuximide and the presence of generalized tonic-clonic seizures have been associated with a lack of seizure remission and life-long epilepsy. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Neurologists are key to managing absence seizures. However, the long-term care and monitoring are done by an interprofessional team that includes the neurologist (child neurologist in the case of the pediatric population), primary care physician, advanced care practitioner, nurse, and pharmacist. Physicians and advanced care practitioners must possess a nuanced understanding of absence seizure diagnosis and management, employing evidence-based practices with ethical considerations. The primary care practitioner, together with the neurologist, should follow up on the liver function tests, amylase, and complete blood count. In addition, birth control should be managed in women taking valproic acid. Finally, drug levels should be monitored periodically as these drugs have a narrow therapeutic index. Nurses play a crucial role in managing absence seizures by closely monitoring patients for seizure activity, documenting symptoms, and promptly alerting the healthcare team to any changes. Additionally, they educate patients on medication adherence, seizure triggers, and safety precautions, empowering them and caregivers to effectively manage the condition outside clinical settings. The pharmacist should educate the patient on the importance of medication compliance. In addition, the pharmacist should ask about any adverse reaction at the time of dispensing the medication. The caregiver should be asked if the symptoms are controlled; if not, the pharmacist should communicate with the interprofessional team about the need for a change in the agent used or dosage. A few patients with intractable absence epilepsy may be candidates for the ketogenic diet. If this is the case, a registered dietician with expertise in this diet should be consulted and periodically evaluate the patient. Mental health providers may be involved in the patient's care as many of these patients develop anxiety, depression, and stress. Therapists with expertise in