CAE showed that ethosuximide and valproic acid were superior to lamotrigine.[17] However, this study had a low seizure-free rate, with 53% of patients in the ethosuximide group, 58% in the valproic acid group, and 29% in patients taking lamotrigine. The group that received valproic acid had significantly lower scores on attentional measures compared to the ethosuximide and lamotrigine groups. For this reason, ethosuximide is the preferred agent for treating absence epilepsy. A study showed that only one-quarter of children with absence epilepsy became seizure-free with levetiracetam. If effective, levetiracetam can control absence epilepsy at a relatively low dose (usually \<40 mg/kg/d). Increasing doses are not effective if levetiracetam is not initially effective.[18] The most frequent adverse effects of ethosuximide are abdominal pain and nausea. For this reason, ethosuximide should be taken with meals. Other medications that can be used to manage CAE include valproate, lamotrigine, and topiramate. Second-line medications that can be used as adjunct therapy include valproic acid, zonisamide, and levetiracetam. It is important to note that some sodium channel blockers like phenytoin, carbamazepine, gabapentin, pregabalin, and vigabatrin can worsen absence seizures.[4] Women of childbearing age not using contraception should not be treated with valproic acid; the preferred agent is ethosuximide. Some experts suggest that a ketogenic or a medium-chain triglyceride diet may be beneficial, but strong evidence to support their use is lacking. ## Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis for staring spells includes absence epilepsy, focal seizures with alteration of awareness, and nonepileptic paroxysmal events. Focal epilepsy with alteration of awareness (previously called complex partial epilepsy) can also present with behavioral arrest and automatisms. However, these seizures are usually less frequent than absence seizures. Patients can have generalized seizures with focal epilepsy. The semiology of automatisms can vary depending on the area of the cerebral cortex where the seizures originate. A study that evaluated nonepileptic staring spells using video-EEG monitoring found that these episodes were often characterized by arrest of all activity, vague facial expressions, and vision fixed on 1 point without blinking. When the duration of the events was quantified, staring episodes lasted between 3 and 74 seconds. In most children, it was difficult to determine the onset and end of the event. Most parents could not regain the child’s attention by waving their hands in front of the child. Other more energetic measures like hand clapping or other loud sounds successfully stopped the events in all