also be performed if a contraindication to a minimally invasive approach is identified. Acute acalculous cholecystitis must be addressed fairly urgently because rapid progression and deterioration may result if left untreated. Chronic acalculous cholecystitis is treated similarly to chronic calculous cholecystitis with laparoscopic cholecystectomy. A robotic approach should be considered depending on the surgeon's experience. Studies suggest that a robotic approach may be associated with a shorter hospital stay and a lower conversion rate to an open approach when compared with a laparoscopic approach.[25] ## Differential Diagnosis Differential diagnoses that should also be considered when evaluating acalculous cholecystitis include: - Biliary colic - Calculous cholecystitis - Choledocholithiasis - Cholangitis - Pancreatitis - Hepatitis - Gastritis - Peptic Ulcer Disease - Appenditis - Mesenteric ischemia ## Prognosis Acute acalculous cholecystitis is a serious illness that has high morbidity and mortality, which is in part due to the critically ill patient population. The reported mortality rate of acute acalculous cholecystitis varies from 30% to 75%.[26][27] Patients who recover also have a long recovery. ## Complications The following complications are associated with acalculous cholecystitis: - Perforation of the gallbladder - Gangrene of the gallbladder - Sepsis ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care Most patients can be discharged home the same day or the day after cholecystectomy. Depending on whether the gallbladder was gangrenous or perforated, antibiotics may be warranted postoperatively. Over-the-counter analgesics usually provide adequate pain control, but a short course of narcotics can be considered. Complaints of shoulder pain following laparoscopic surgery, which is caused by referred pain from the diaphragm and retained CO2 gas, are common. However, this pain typically resolves over the next few days as the patient increases mobility and the CO2 is slowly reabsorbed. Postoperative follow-up with the surgeon typically occurs 2 to 4 weeks after the procedure. Before being discharged home, the patient should be advised about the potential for fatty food intolerance, which can cause abdominal bloating or diarrhea. This intolerance is usually temporary but may persist for a prolonged period due to the decreased speed of fat emulsification resulting from the loss of stored bile in the gallbladder. Most patients will experience an increase in bile production by the liver and will see an improvement in symptoms over time. ## Consultations Clinicians frequently involved with the management of acalculous cholecystitis include: - General surgeon - Gastroenterologist - Radiologist ## Deterrence and Patient Education Deterrence of acalculous