administered to patients to maintain the oxygen saturation above 94%. However, it is not recommended for nonhypoxic patients. - Blood pressure (BP): Patients with elevated BP should have their BP carefully reduced to a systolic BP (SBP) below 185 mm Hg and diastolic BP below 110 mm Hg before initiating IV fibrinolytic therapy. Following the treatment, the BP should be maintained below 180/105 mm Hg for at least 24 hours. Suppose a mechanical thrombectomy is planned, and the patient has not received IV fibrinolytic therapy. In that case, it is reasonable to maintain their BP at or below 185/110 mm Hg before the procedure and at or below 180/105 mm Hg during and for 24 hours after the procedure. - Temperature: In patients with AIS, hyperthermia (body temperature >38°C or 100.4°F) should be addressed by administering antipyretic medication. - Blood glucose: Both hypoglycemia (blood glucose level \<60 mg/dL) and hyperglycemia (blood glucose levels within the range of 140 to 180 mg/dL) should be treated in patients with AIS. - IV alteplase: IV alteplase is recommended for patients with AIS at a dosage of 0.9 mg/kg, with the initial 10% given as a bolus over 1 minute (maximum dosage is 90 mg over 60 minutes). Eligible patients include those who meet the criteria within 3 hours or 3 to 4.5 hours of AIS witnessed symptom onset or when the patient was last known well or at baseline. The exact dosage can be administered within 4.5 hours to patients with AIS who awaken with stroke symptoms or have an unclear time of onset greater than 4.5 hours from when they were last known well or at baseline, and also for patients who have a DW-MRI lesion smaller than one-third of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory and no visible signal change on FLAIR. To mitigate the risk of bleeding, abciximab should not be administered concurrently with IV alteplase; IV aspirin should not be administered within 90 minutes after initiating IV alteplase; and IV alteplase should not be administered within 24 hours after a total treatment dosage of low-molecular-weight heparin. - Other IV fibrinolytics: In patients without contraindications who are eligible for mechanical thrombectomy, a single IV bolus of tenecteplase at 0.25 mg/kg (maximum 25 mg) can be administered instead of IV alteplase. However, IV defibrinogenating or IV fibrinolytic agents, other than alteplase and tenecteplase, are not recommended. - Mechanical thrombectomy: Patients eligible