the workup. Findings of cholecystitis and gallstones can often be seen in this imaging. A gallbladder ultrasound is the best test to evaluate gallbladder disease initially. A thickened gallbladder wall and gallstones are common findings with this condition. In cases of acute cholecystitis, a hepatobiliary (HIDA) scan is recommended. This scan will diagnose gallbladder function or cystic duct obstruction. The addition of cholecystokinin (CCK) in cases of no gallstones may also diagnose acalculous cholecystitis. This is indicated by an ejection fracture of less than 35%.[10][11] ## Treatment / Management The most appropriate management of cholecystitis is laparoscopic cholecystectomy. There are low morbidity and mortality rates with quick recovery. This can also be done with an open technique in cases where the patient is not a good laparoscopic candidate. In situations in which the patient is acutely ill and considered a poor surgical candidate, he or she may be treated with temporizing percutaneous drainage of the gallbladder. Milder cases of chronic cholecystitis in patients considered poor surgical candidates might be managed with low-fat and low-spice diets. The results of this treatment vary. Medical treatment of gallstones with ursodiol also has been reported to have occasional success.[12][13][3] ## Differential Diagnosis - Appendicitis - Biliary colic - Cholangitis - Mesenteric ischemia - Gastritis - Peptic ulcer disease ## Complications The complications of acute cholecystitis include: - Biloma - Intraabdominal abscess - Bile duct injury - Hepatic injury - Small bowel injury - Infection - Retained stones in the bile duct - Bleeding ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care Once the gallbladder has been removed, most patients can be discharged on the same day. The pain is minimal and can be managed by over-the-counter analgesics. The patient may complain of severe shoulder pain due to retained CO2 from laparoscopic insufflation and should be explained that such pain will dissipate as the patient moves and gas is slowly absorbed, which can take up to three days. Prior to discharge, the patient should be advised on possible intolerance to greasy food, which may cause bloating or diarrhea. This can be temporary or, at some degree permanent, due to the decreased speed of fat emulsification by the loss of stored bile in the gallbladder. Most patients will have an up-regulation in bile production by the liver and will see improvement in symptoms with time. Follow-up time is between 3-4 weeks from operation. ## Pearls and Other Issues Cholecystitis