for detecting biliary stones less than 3 mm and chronic pancreatitis. For this reason, preference is given to EUS. If MRCP and EUS are unavailable, computed tomography with pancreatic protocol is selected. Diagnostic endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is not routinely done and is reserved for endotherapy for patients with abnormal findings on MRCP/ EUS.[13][14][15] ## Treatment / Management Early aggressive fluid resuscitation is the foundation of management for acute pancreatitis. The choice of fluid is lactated ringers solution given with an initial bolus of 15 to 20 mL/kg and followed by administering at a rate of 3 mL/kg per hour (approximately 250 to 500 mL per hour) in the first 24 hours if there are no other contraindications for fluid. The fluid resuscitation monitoring is done with a combination of labs, blood urea nitrogen, hematocrit, and urine output every 4 to 6 hours in the first 24 hours of resuscitation to adjust the fluid rate. No response to initial resuscitation indicates a high likelihood of ensuing MODS and is grounds for upgrading the level of care.[16][17][18] A recent RCT concluded that aggressive fluid resuscitation in acute pancreatitis resulted in a higher incidence of fluid overload without any clinical improvement in the outcomes.[19][20] Another critical issue in managing acute pancreatitis is nutrition. The commonly employed practice is to keep nothing by mouth until abdominal pain, vomiting, nausea, loss of appetite, and ileus improve. Many studies support early feeding in mild pancreatitis and consider it safe as it does not exacerbate symptoms. A soft, low-residue, low-fat diet is recommended for initial feeding. Later it is advanced to regular consistency as soon as it is tolerated. In severe pancreatitis or where per-oral intake is not tolerable, nasojejunal feeding is considered superior to parenteral nutrition because it helps minimize bacterial translocation by maintaining the intestinal wall barrier. Prophylactic antibiotics are usually not needed. With the suspicion of an infection, empiric antibiotics are appropriate until culture results are available. Initiation of antibiotics is limited to the presence of infected necrosis. Pain management is a critical priority in treating acute pancreatitis.[21] Nearly all the patients presenting with acute pancreatitis experience abdominal pain at some point during the disease. Some of the current practice guidelines overlook the recommendation for pain management. In contrast, others provide strong recommendations for pain assessment and best pharmacological therapy but fail to provide sufficient details regarding the analgesia's type, dose, route, and