not clinically utilized due to its low specificity, rapid rise, and normalization. LDH levels reach their peak after 72 hours and return to normal within 10 to 14 days. In clinical practice, LDH is not used to diagnose acute MI. B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) should not be ordered as a marker for MI; instead, it is more valuable for risk stratification, particularly in patients with MI who subsequently develop heart failure. **Cardiac Imaging** Cardiac angiography is used to perform the percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) procedure or determine obstructions in the coronary vessels. An echocardiogram is used to assess wall motion, degree of valve abnormality, ischemic mitral regurgitation, and presence of cardiac tamponade. ## Treatment / Management All patients with STEMI and NSTEMI require immediate administration of nonenteric-coated, chewable aspirin with a loading dose of 162 mg to 325 mg.[12] Additionally, patients should have intravenous access established, and oxygen supplementation should be administered if their oxygen saturation falls below 91%. Opioids may be used for pain control in addition to sublingual nitroglycerin if the patient's blood pressure is within an acceptable range.[13][14][15] The primary treatment approach for STEMI involves immediate reperfusion. The preferred method is emergent PCI. Before PCI, patients should receive dual antiplatelet therapy, which includes intravenous heparin infusion and an adenosine diphosphate inhibitor receptor (P2Y12 inhibitor), most commonly ticagrelor. A glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor or direct thrombin inhibitor may also be administered during the PCI procedure. If PCI is unavailable within 90 minutes of diagnosing STEMI, reperfusion using an intravenous thrombolytic agent should be attempted. In stable asymptomatic patients with NSTEMI, the initial management approach is typically medical, focusing on using antiplatelet agents and other appropriate medications. However, PCI can be performed within 48 hours of admission if necessary. This delayed PCI strategy has been shown to potentially improve in-hospital mortality and decrease the length of hospital stay for NSTEMI patients. In NSTEMI patients who experience refractory ischemia or ischemia with hemodynamic or electrical instability, PCI should be performed emergently. Before discharge for acute MI, patients may routinely be prescribed aspirin, a high-dose statin, a beta-blocker, and possibly an ACE inhibitor. If PCI is considered the treatment option for an acute MI, it is recommended to perform the procedure within 12 hours of symptom onset. If fibrinolytic therapy is considered the primary reperfusion strategy, it should be initiated within 120 minutes. In addition to reperfusion strategies, parenteral anticoagulation is recommended