volumes), barotrauma (exposure to high plateau pressures), and atelectrauma (exposure to atelectasis).[1][13] A lung-protective ventilatory strategy is advocated to reduce lung injury. The NIH-NHLBI ARDS Clinical Network Mechanical Ventilation Protocol (ARDSnet) sets the following goals: tidal volume (TV) from 4 to 8 mL/kg of ideal body weight (IBW), respiratory rate (RR) up to 35 bpm, SpO2 88% to 95%, plateau pressure (Pp) less than 30 cm H2O, pH goal 7.30 to 7.45, and inspiratory-to-expiratory time ratio less than 1. To maintain oxygenation, ARDSnet recognizes the benefit of PEEP. The protocol allows for a low or a high PEEP strategy relative to FiO2. Either strategy tolerates a PEEP of up to 24 cm H2O in patients requiring 100% FiO2. The inspiratory-to-expiratory time ratio goal may need to be sacrificed, and an inverse inspiratory-to-expiratory time ratio strategy may need to be instituted to improve oxygenation in particular clinical situations. Novel invasive ventilation strategies have been developed to improve oxygenation. These include airway pressure release ventilation (APRV) and high-frequency oscillation ventilation (children). Recruitment maneuvers and APRV have not been shown to improve mortality but may improve oxygenation. Patients with mild and some with moderate ARDS may benefit from non-invasive ventilation to avoid endotracheal intubation and invasive mechanical ventilation. These modalities include continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), bi-level airway pressure (BiPAP), proportional-assist ventilation, and a high-flow nasal cannula. Adequate care should be taken to intubate and mechanically ventilate these patients if they get worse on the above non-invasive ventilation. Several strategies can be employed to reduce the risk of barotrauma in ARDS management to achieve Pp less than 30 cm H2O. One effective approach involves maintaining TV and minimizing PEEP as much as possible. Additionally, increasing the rise or inspiration time can aid in meeting the Pp target. Decreasing the flow rate can also serve as a supplementary method to lower Pp. Improving lung compliance will improve Pp and oxygenation goal attainment. Neuromuscular blockade has been used as an aid to improving compliance. Neuromuscular blockers instituted during the first 48 hours of ARDS improved 90-day survival and increased time off the ventilator.[13] However, the most recent trial published in 2019 showed no significant difference in mortality with continuous infusion of people with paralysis compared to lighter sedation goals.[14] Other causes of decreased lung compliance should be sought and addressed. These include but are not limited to pneumothorax, hemothorax, thoracic compartment syndrome, and intraabdominal hypertension.