most patients unless an autoimmune etiology for acute pericarditis is identified. The initial dose should be maintained until symptom relief and normalization of CPR, after which it should be tapered down slowly.[52] Response to therapy is assessed clinically based on symptom relief, although serial CRP measurements can also be helpful. If there is an incomplete response to anti-inflammatory agents (ASA or NSAIDs) with adjunctive colchicine—such as in cases of recurrent pericarditis—the addition of steroids as part of a triple therapy regimen should be considered after ruling out an infectious etiology.[53] For corticosteroid-dependent recurrent pericarditis, steroid-sparing immunosuppressive agents such as azathioprine, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), or anakinra (an interleukin-1 receptor antagonist) may be considered as third-line therapy.[54] If these options are ineffective, pericardiectomy remains a last resort.[55] Certain forms of acute pericarditis, such as iatrogenic and uremic pericarditis, have been associated with an increased risk of hemorrhagic pericardial effusion and cardiac tamponade, according to small studies. Therefore, while strong evidence is lacking, stopping anticoagulation when feasible in these patients may be prudent.[46] However, no formal guidelines exist, and recommendations are based solely on expert opinion. Additionally, concomitant use of ASA should be avoided unless there is a strong indication, such as recent stent placement or post-acute coronary syndrome. ## Differential Diagnosis Differential diagnoses include: - Pleurisy - Pneumonia - Acute myocardial infarction - Bony pain - Costochondritis - Angina ## Prognosis The overall prognosis for acute pericarditis is excellent, with most patients experiencing complete recovery. Up to 30% of patients who are not treated with colchicine may experience recurrent pericarditis. Constrictive pericarditis is exceedingly rare following idiopathic acute pericarditis, occurring in less than 1% of cases. However, the risk of constrictive pericarditis increases with specific etiologies, particularly purulent bacterial or tuberculosis pericarditis, where it may rise to as high as 30%.[56][57] Cardiac tamponade, the most feared acute complication, rarely occurs after idiopathic pericarditis but is more commonly associated with malignancy and infectious causes of pericarditis.[58] ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Diagnosing and managing pericarditis can be complex and is best accomplished through an interprofessional healthcare team that includes a cardiologist, radiologist, cardiac surgeon, infectious disease specialist, primary care provider, and nurse practitioner. Most patients present with vague chest pain, which can be mistaken for a heart attack, pleurisy, or angina. Therefore, consulting with a cardiologist before initiating treatment is essential. In most cases, conservative treatment with NSAIDs effectively resolves pericarditis; however, an