should alert the clinician to the possibility of perforation. Associated symptoms depend on the organ affected and the contents released. Patients can develop peritonitis, a fistula, or an abscess if the fluid remains contained. Splenic rupture:\*\*\*\* Splenic rupture is typically due to trauma. Patients may complain of left upper abdominal, left chest wall, or left shoulder pain. Pain referred to the left shoulder that worsens with inspiration is called Kehr's sign and is due to blood adjacent to the left hemidiaphragm irritating the phrenic nerve. Testicular torsion:\*\*\*\* Testicular torsion typically presents in children and adolescents with severe testicular and lower abdominal pain. Commonly associated symptoms are nausea and vomiting. ## Evaluation The history and physical examination guide the diagnostic evaluation of acute abdominal pain. Patients with unstable vital signs, evidence of peritonitis, or suspected life-threatening conditions such as ectopic pregnancy, myocardial infarction, bowel obstruction, abdominal aortic aneurysm, acute mesenteric ischemia, or perforation warrant urgent evaluation in the emergency department. Patients with potential life-threatening abdominal pathology should undergo simultaneous evaluation and resuscitation. Healthcare professionals initially assess the patient's general appearance, airway, breathing, and vital signs. A bedside fingerstick glucose can assess for possible diabetic ketoacidosis, an electrocardiogram assesses for cardiac and electrolyte abnormalities, and a bedside ultrasound is a quick tool used to assess for abdominal aortic aneurysm, hydronephrosis, pericardial effusion, and hemoperitoneum. If the suspected etiology is perforation of an abdominal organ or sepsis due to an abdominal origin, an upright portable chest radiograph is the initial imaging test of choice. If the bedside ultrasound and upright chest radiograph do not provide adequate diagnostic clues, computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen and pelvis with intravenous (IV) contrast is the next step. An abdominal and pelvic ultrasound is the initial imaging modality in pregnant patients evaluating for an intrauterine pregnancy, appendicitis, nephrolithiasis, cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, and uterine rupture. If the ultrasound is not helpful and additional imaging is necessary, abdominal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the next step. For less emergent cases, the location of the pain helps guide evaluation, much like it does when developing the differential diagnosis. When examining children, it is essential to consider the child's age and the likely diagnosis. **Right Upper Quadrant Pain** Right upper quadrant pain is associated with the liver or biliary tree. However, as the liver only becomes painful when its capsule is stretched, the primary causes are related to the biliary tree. Patients