cellular damage is characterized by inflammation, apoptosis, necrosis, and increased alveolar-capillary permeability, leading to alveolar edema and proteinosis. Alveolar edema, in turn, reduces gas exchange, leading to hypoxemia. A hallmark of the pattern of injury seen in ARDS is that it is not uniform. Segments of the lung may be more severely affected, resulting in decreased regional lung compliance, which classically involves the bases more than the apices. Intrapulmonary differential in pathology results in a variant response to oxygenation strategies, such as increased positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP), which may improve oxygen diffusion in affected alveoli but may cause volutrauma and atelectrauma of adjacent unaffected alveoli.[8] Ultimately, this injury manifests as impaired gas exchange, decreased lung compliance, and pulmonary hypertension.[9] ## Histopathology The key histologic changes in ARDS reveal the presence of alveolar edema in diseased lung areas. The type I pneumocytes and vascular endothelium are injured, which results in the leaking of proteinaceous fluid and blood into the alveolar airspace. Other findings may include alveolar hemorrhage, pulmonary capillary congestion, interstitial edema, and hyaline membrane formation. None of these changes are specific to the disease.[8] ## History and Physical The syndrome is characterized by dyspnea and hypoxemia, progressively worsening within 6 to 72 hours of the inciting event, frequently requiring mechanical ventilation and intensive care unit-level care. The history is directed at identifying the underlying cause that precipitated the disease. When interviewing patients who can communicate, they often start to complain of mild dyspnea initially. Within 12 to 24 hours, the respiratory distress escalates, becoming severe and requiring mechanical ventilation to prevent hypoxia. The etiology may be obvious in the case of pneumonia or sepsis. However, in other cases, questioning the patient or relatives on recent exposures may also be paramount in identifying the causative agent. The physical examination will include findings associated with the respiratory system, such as tachypnea and increased breathing effort. Systemic signs may also be evident depending on the severity of the illness, such as central or peripheral cyanosis resulting from hypoxemia, tachycardia, and altered mental status. Despite 100% oxygen, patients have low oxygen saturation. Chest auscultation usually reveals rales, especially bibasilar, but can often be auscultated throughout the chest. ## Evaluation The diagnosis of ARDS is based on the following criteria: acute onset, bilateral lung infiltrates on chest radiography or CT scan (who are of non-cardiac origin), and a PaO2/FiO2 ratio of less than 300 mm