most recent trial published in 2019 showed no significant difference in mortality with continuous infusion of people with paralysis compared to lighter sedation goals.[14] Other causes of decreased lung compliance should be sought and addressed. These include but are not limited to pneumothorax, hemothorax, thoracic compartment syndrome, and intraabdominal hypertension. Prone position has shown benefits in about 50% to 70% of patients. The improvement in oxygenation is rapid and allows a reduction in FiO2 and PEEP. The prone position is safe, but there is a risk of dislodgement of lines and tubes. The prone position is believed to facilitate the recruitment of dependent lung zones, improve diaphragmatic excursion, and increase functional residual capacity. The patient must be prone for at least 8 hours a day to derive the benefits. Nonventilatory strategies have included prone positioning and conservative fluid management once resuscitation has been achieved.[15][16] Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) has recently been advocated as salvage therapy in refractory hypoxemic ARDS.[17] However, two major trials that compared venovenous ECMO to standard care showed no difference in mortality between the two groups.[18] Nutritional support via enteral feeding is recommended. A high-fat, low-carbohydrate diet containing gamma-linolenic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid has been shown in some studies to improve oxygenation. A moderately permissive hyperglycemic strategy, blood glucose 140 to 180 mg/dL, is recommended for most hyperglycemic critically ill patients, rather than intensive insulin therapy targeting blood glucose 80 to 110 mg/dL. Critically ill patients are more prone to deep venous thrombosis, so some form of prophylaxis is recommended. Likewise, prophylaxis against stress ulcers is advised for increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding. Glucocorticoids can be administered in patients in whom ARDS has been precipitated by a steroid-responsive process (eg, acute eosinophilic pneumonia) and to those with refractory sepsis or community-acquired pneumonia. Most patients who have persistent or refractory moderate to severe ARDS are relatively early in the disease course (within 14 days of onset with a PaO2/FiO2 ratio \<200 mm Hg) despite initial management with standard therapies, including low tidal volume ventilation, can also be managed with glucocorticoids.[19] However, glucocorticoids are generally avoided in patients with less severe ARDS or those with persistent ARDS beyond 14 days. Moreover, their use is associated with worse outcomes in patients with certain viral infections, including influenza.[20] Central venous catheters may be helpful for frequent blood draws, administration of vasopressors, and measurement of central venous pressure. Care must also be