weakness - Infection - Renal failure - Death [29][5] ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care - Physical therapy to regain function and strength and prevent contractures and stiffness. - Wound care and monitoring for any ischemia, infection, gangrene. - Antibiotics if infection if warranted - Pain medicine - The patient will need to learn how to use an ambulatory device like crutches until healing is complete. - An occupational therapy consult is recommended to help teach the patient how to perform daily living activities. [32][33][34] ## Consultations Management of acute compartment syndrome involves a multidisciplinary approach. Initially, the patient is attended to by a general or orthopedic surgeon. Depending on the complications, the following may be consulted in the management of patients with acute compartment syndrome: - Infectious disease - Wound care - Physical therapy - Occupational therapy ## Deterrence and Patient Education Patients should be educated to seek care after a traumatic injury or if they develop pain or swelling of an extremity. If a fasciotomy is performed, adequate wound care is of utmost importance. ## Pearls and Other Issues When applying plaster casts, especially following reduction, uni-valving or bi-valving can help to reduce the pressure by about 50%. Beware that once the initial swelling dissipates, the cast can become excessively loose, which can decrease the amount of reduction accomplished. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes The management of acute compartment syndrome requires a well-integrated interprofessional team of healthcare professionals including nurses, laboratory technologists, pharmacists, and multiple physicians in different specialties. Without proper management, acute compartment syndrome can lead to high morbidity and poor outcomes. - The nurses are usually the first health professional to see the patient, often in triage in the emergency department. The nurse must quickly recognize the signs and symptoms consistent with compartment syndrome and immediately involve the clinical team to further evaluate the patient. The nurses will need to assist in monitoring the patient's vital signs, pain, and assist in getting the patient to the operating room where definitive treatment usually takes place. After the procedure, they will need ongoing evaluation as often a patient with compartment syndrome will have multiple other injuries that require attention as well as complications as a direct result of the compartment damage. - Pharmacists in the emergency department can assist in medication reconciliation as well as provide recommendations regarding pain management. - The nurse practitioner, physician assistant, and physicians often