neutrophils and initiating the inflammatory cascade. This inflammatory cascade then leads to the systemic manifestations of acute pancreatitis. It ultimately produces capillary permeability and endothelium damage with microvascular thrombosis that gives rise to multi-organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) as the main cause of morbidity and mortality in the setting of acute pancreatitis. Some individuals also have a genetic predisposition for pancreatitis and suffer from recurrent acute pancreatitis, progressing to chronic pancreatitis. Not surprisingly, the associated genes are involved in activating trypsinogen to trypsin. Many genes play a role in recurrent pancreatitis, eg, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (_CFTR_) gene, cationic trypsinogen gene (_PRSS1_) gain of function mutations, mutations of trypsin degrading enzyme (CTCR) chymotrypsin C and (SPINK1) pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor. Furthermore, they are also involved in the increasingly acknowledged spectrum of diseases, from acute to chronic pancreatitis.[3][11][12] ## History and Physical The patient commonly describes moderate to severe abdominal pain in the epigastrium associated with nausea and anorexia. The nature of the pain can vary, depending on whether the etiology is a biliary obstruction or a metabolic/toxicologic cause. Biliary etiology is often described as a sharper pain that radiates to the back with a more acute onset. In contrast, metabolic and toxicologic causes like alcohol often have a more sluggish start with dull and generalized pain in the epigastrium. A detailed history regarding alcohol use and medications should be inquired about, keeping in mind that it takes over 5 years of heavy alcohol use to induce alcohol-related pancreatitis. Smoking history is also a significant risk factor for acute pancreatitis. Family history should be reviewed, mainly when more common etiologies appear less likely, as there are rare genetic cases of familial pancreatitis. A physical exam is often significant for fever, tachycardia, and in severe patients, hypotension. The abdominal exam typically reveal epigastric tenderness with possible guarding, rigidity, and decreased bowel sounds. In extreme cases where retroperitoneal bleeding has occurred, the Grey-Turners sign may be present as ecchymosis at the flanks. In contrast, Cullen's sign appears as periumbilical ecchymosis secondary to peritoneal hemorrhage. ## Evaluation According to the Revised Atlanta Classification, the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis requires meeting at least 2 of 3 criteria: 1. A lipase or amylase level is 3 times the normal's upper limit. 1. Abdominal pain is consistent with pancreatitis. 1. Abdominal imaging is consistent with acute pancreatitis. Establishing the underlying etiology of acute pancreatitis includes initial evaluation