usually reveals rales, especially bibasilar, but can often be auscultated throughout the chest. ## Evaluation The diagnosis of ARDS is based on the following criteria: acute onset, bilateral lung infiltrates on chest radiography or CT scan (who are of non-cardiac origin), and a PaO2/FiO2 ratio of less than 300 mm Hg. It is further sub-classified into mild (PaO2/FiO2 >200 mm Hg, but ≤300 mm Hg), moderate (PaO2/FiO2 >100 mm Hg, but ≤ 200 mm Hg), and severe (PaO2/FiO2 ≤100 mm Hg) subtypes. Mortality and ventilator-free days increase with severity. A CT scan of the chest may be helpful in cases of pneumothorax, pleural effusion, mediastinal lymphadenopathy, or barotrauma to correctly identify infiltrates as pulmonic in origin. Assessing left ventricular function is crucial to differentiate ARDS from congestive heart failure or to understand heart failure's contribution to the patient's condition. This assessment can be done through invasive methods like pulmonary artery catheter measurements or noninvasive techniques such as cardiac echocardiography, thoracic bioimpedance, or pulse contour analysis. However, using pulmonary artery catheters is controversial and generally discouraged, with a preference for noninvasive methods. Bronchoscopy may be required to assess pulmonary infections and obtain material for culture.[2] Further laboratory and radiographic tests are guided by the underlying cause of the inflammatory process leading to ARDS. Patients with ARDS often develop or have concurrent multi-organ failure, affecting renal, hepatic, and hematopoietic systems. Regular testing, including complete blood count with differential, comprehensive metabolic panel, serum magnesium, serum ionized calcium, phosphorus levels, blood lactate level, coagulation panel, troponin, cardiac enzymes, and CKMB, is recommended as clinically indicated.[10][11][12] ## Treatment / Management The chief treatment strategy is supportive care, focusing on 1) reducing shunt fraction, 2) increasing oxygen delivery, 3) decreasing oxygen consumption, and 4) avoiding further injury. Patients are mechanically ventilated, guarded against fluid overload with diuretics, and given nutritional support until improvement is observed. Interestingly, the mode in which a patient is ventilated affects lung recovery. Evidence suggests that some ventilatory strategies can exacerbate alveolar damage and perpetuate lung injury in the context of ARDS. Care is placed on preventing volutrauma (exposure to large tidal volumes), barotrauma (exposure to high plateau pressures), and atelectrauma (exposure to atelectasis).[1][13] A lung-protective ventilatory strategy is advocated to reduce lung injury. The NIH-NHLBI ARDS Clinical Network Mechanical Ventilation Protocol (ARDSnet) sets the following goals: tidal volume (TV) from 4 to 8 mL/kg of ideal body weight (IBW), respiratory rate