cases of myopericarditis. This imaging technique can also detect intra-myocardial strands associated with fibrinous pericardial effusion and is highly effective for evaluating myocardial function and identifying suspicious pericardial masses.[39] Emergent pericardiocentesis is recommended for patients presenting with cardiac tamponade.[40] Pericardiocentesis may also be performed electively in cases of moderate-to-large pericardial effusion without immediate hemodynamic compromise, with a chest tube left in place for several days or until drainage ceases. Diagnostic pericardiocentesis is also indicated when an infectious cause of acute pericarditis is suspected, even with a small effusion. Bacterial, fungal, and tuberculosis studies on pericardial fluid should include basic chemistry, polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and fluid cultures. Blood cultures should also be obtained when appropriate.[40] Purulent effusions, although rare, are associated with high mortality and should be treated aggressively. Urgent drainage is necessary, followed by intra-pericardial thrombolysis in cases of loculated effusions (Class IIa, LOE C). The aspirate may appear overtly purulent, and a low pericardial-to-serum glucose ratio of less than 0.3, along with neutrophilic predominance (mean cell count of 2.8/μL, with 92% neutrophils), helps differentiate it from mycobacterial or neoplastic pericarditis.[41] An exudative pericardial effusion warrants empiric anti-tuberculosis treatment in regions where tuberculosis is endemic, even while cultures are pending. If a positive diagnosis of tuberculosis is confirmed, medical therapy for at least 6 months is recommended (Class I, LOE C). Pericardiectomy should be considered if there is no improvement in symptoms after 4 to 8 weeks of therapy (Class I, LOE C).[42] Pericardial thickening is present in most cases of tuberculosis pericarditis. Before effective medical treatment was available, effusive pericarditis would progress to constrictive pericarditis in up to half of all cases. Studies have shown that the addition of high-dose adjunctive prednisolone can reduce the incidence of constrictive pericarditis, but it may also increase the risk of HIV-associated malignancies.[43] Consequently, adjunctive steroids may be considered in HIV-negative patients but should be avoided in HIV-positive patients, as per ESC guidelines (Class IIb, LOE C).[41] Pericardial fluid analysis with cytology is recommended to confirm malignant pericardial disease (Class I, LOE B). Additional testing may include pericardial biopsy and tumor marker assessments, such as carcinoembryonic antigen and CA-19 (Class IIa, LOE B). However, evidence supporting their accuracy in distinguishing malignant effusions is limited.[44] If a definitive diagnosis of viral pericarditis is sought, a comprehensive histological, cytological, and molecular analysis should be performed on the obtained pericardial fluid and any pericardial biopsy.