surface ECG.[12] Myocardial damage occurs when the blood flow is interrupted, warranting immediate management. Sudden-onset acute ischemia can result in severe microvascular dysfunction. ## History and Physical Acute chest discomfort, which patients may describe as pain, pressure, tightness, heaviness, or a burning sensation, is the most common symptom that leads healthcare professionals to consider the diagnosis of ACS and initiate appropriate diagnostic testing. Diagnostic delays or errors can occur from an incomplete patient history or challenges in obtaining a clear description of symptoms. Therefore, thorough patient history and detailed communication are essential to understand the complexity of ACS-related symptoms, potentially enabling a prompt and accurate diagnosis. Obtaining a focused medical history and identifying the presenting symptoms is essential to quickly guide the patient along the appropriate care pathway. A targeted physical examination should involve evaluating all major pulses, measuring blood pressure in both arms, auscultating heart and lung sounds, and assessing for any signs of heart failure or circulatory compromise. Patients should be asked about the characteristics of the pain and associated symptoms, risk factors or history of cardiovascular disease, and recent drug use.[13] STEMI risk factors include age, gender, family history of premature coronary artery disease, tobacco use, dyslipidemia, diabetes, hypertension, abdominal obesity, sedentary lifestyle, a diet low in fruits and vegetables, and psychosocial stressors.[14] Cocaine use can cause STEMI regardless of risk factors.[15] Obtaining a history of known congenital abnormalities can be useful during evaluation.[16] Familial hypercholesterolemia is linked to an increased risk of early-onset atherosclerotic disease. In patients hospitalized with acute myocardial infarction, familial hypercholesterolemia correlates with a higher incidence of both STEMI and NSTEMI, fewer cases of type 2 myocardial infarction, and Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, and a greater need for multiple stents, coronary bypass surgery, and mechanical circulatory support devices.[17] ## Evaluation **Electrocardiogram** The resting 12-lead ECG is the primary diagnostic tool for evaluating patients with suspected ACS. An ECG should be performed immediately upon first medical contact and interpreted by a qualified emergency medical technician or physician within 10 minutes. Repeat ECGs may be necessary, mainly if symptoms have subsided during first medical contact. Patients with suspected ACS are typically categorized into 2 main diagnostic groups based on the initial ECG findings.[18] Patients with acute chest pain or equivalent symptoms and persistent ST-segment elevation or its ECG equivalents are given a working diagnosis of STEMI. Most of these patients experience myocardial necrosis and elevated troponin levels,