useful in diagnosing causes other than MI presenting with chest pain like pneumonia and pneumothorax. The same applies for blood work like complete blood count (CBC), chemistry, liver function test, and lipase which can help differentiate intraabdominal pathology presenting with chest pain. Aortic dissection and pulmonary emboli should be kept in differential and investigated when the situation warrants. [7][8][9] ## Treatment / Management The initial treatment for all ACS includes aspirin (300 mg) and heparin bolus and intravenous (IV) heparin infusion if there are no contraindications to the same. Antiplatelet therapy with ticagrelor or clopidogrel is also recommended. The choice depends on local cardiologist preference. Ticagrelor is not given to the patients receiving thrombolysis. [10][11][12] Supportive measures like pain control with morphine/ fentanyl and oxygen in case of hypoxia are provided as required. Nitroglycerin sublingual or infusion can be used for pain relief as well. In cases of inferior wall ischemia, nitroglycerine can cause severe hypotension and should be used with extreme caution, if at all. Continuous cardiac monitoring for arrhythmia is warranted. Further Treatment of ACS depends on whether it is a STEMI /NSTEMI or unstable angina. The American Heart Association (AHA) recommends an emergent catheterization and percutaneous intervention (PCI) for STEMI with door to procedure start time of fewer than 90 minutes. A thrombolytic (tenecteplase or other thrombolytic) is recommended if there is no PCI available and the patient cannot be transferred to the catheterization lab in less than 120 minutes. AHA guideline dictates the door to needle (TNK/other thrombolytics) time to be less than 30 minutes. NSTEMI/Unstable Angina-Symptom control is tried along with the initial treatment with aspirin, and heparin. If the patient continues to have pain, then urgent catheterization is recommended. If symptoms are controlled effectively, then a decision can be made for the timing of catheterization and other evaluation techniques including myocardial perfusion study from case to case basis depending on comorbidities. ACS always warrants admission and emergent cardiology evaluation. Computerized tomography angiography might also be utilized for further workup depending on availability and cardiologist preference. Beta-blockers, statin, and ACE inhibitors should be initiated in all ACS cases as quickly as possible unless contraindications exist. Cases not amenable to PCI are taken for CABG (coronary artery bypass graft) or managed medically depending upon comorbidities and patient choice. ## Differential Diagnosis - Acute pericarditis - Anxiety disorders - Aortic stenosis - Asthma - Dilated cardiomyopathy -