indicating elevated right atrial filling pressures.[47][48] Minor risk markers include immunosuppression, trauma, or myopericarditis, where patients exhibit troponin elevation alongside elevated inflammatory markers. In most patients, empiric treatment with high-dose anti-inflammatory agents, in addition to colchicine, is recommended. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) therapy should continue until symptom relief is achieved, which typically occurs within 3 days to 2 weeks. Possible regimens include ibuprofen 600 mg every 8 hours, indomethacin 25 to 50 mg every 8 hours, or naproxen 500 to 1000 mg every 12 hours.[49] Aspirin 500 to 1000 mg every 6 to 8 hours should be used instead of other NSAIDs in patients post-myocardial infarction or those already on antiplatelet therapy (Class I, LOE C). Aspirin is also considered first-line therapy during the first trimester of pregnancy but is contraindicated after 20 weeks of gestation, where paracetamol may be used instead. The COPE trial randomized 120 patients to receive either conventional therapy with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA, also known as aspirin) or conventional therapy with adjunctive colchicine, following them for 18 months. The colchicine group showed less symptom persistence at 72 hours (11.7% versus 36.7%; _P_ = .003) and significantly fewer recurrent episodes (10.7% versus 32.3%; _P_ = .004) compared to the control group.[50] Several studies have demonstrated that colchicine effectively reduces the recurrence of pericarditis, with further episodes decreased by approximately half.[51] Consequently, adjunctive colchicine therapy is now recommended for most patients with acute pericarditis for a duration of 3 to 6 months. The recommended dosage is 0.6 mg PO BID for patients with a body weight of more than 70 kg and 0.5 mg orally once daily for those with a body weight of less than 70 kg. Colchicine is contraindicated in patients with severe renal impairment (Class III, LOE C). Low-to-moderate doses of prednisone (0.2–0.5 mg/kg/d or equivalent) with a slow taper may be considered if NSAIDs or ASA and colchicine are contraindicated. While the latter can often provide rapid clinical improvement, ample evidence suggests that their use increases the risk of recurrent pericarditis after therapy is discontinued.[52] Consequently, corticosteroids are not recommended as first-line therapy for most patients unless an autoimmune etiology for acute pericarditis is identified. The initial dose should be maintained until symptom relief and normalization of CPR, after which it should be tapered down slowly.[52] Response to therapy is assessed clinically based on symptom relief, although serial CRP measurements can also be helpful.