due to stable ischemic heart disease or acute coronary syndrome, subendocardial ischemia associated with aortic stenosis or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, aortic dissection, myocarditis, pleurisy secondary to pulmonary embolism or pneumonia, costochondritis, esophageal spasm, peptic ulcer disease, or referred pain from another organ, such as acute cholecystitis. In the acute setting, ruling out life-threatening causes is critical before considering the diagnosis of acute pericarditis, especially in cases of uncertainty.[28] Auscultation typically reveals a left parasternal pericardial friction rub, characterized by a rasping, scratchy triphasic sound that corresponds to friction between the pericardial layers during atrial systole, ventricular systole, and early ventricular diastole. This friction rub is reported to be present at some point during the illness in 35% to 85% of cases.[29] However, it can be challenging to elicit during an examination. The physician should listen to multiple precordial locations in various positions, including the lateral decubitus position at end-expiration, using the diaphragm to enhance the likelihood of detection. Listening to precordial movements more than once is essential, as pericardial friction rubs can appear and disappear intermittently. They may be discernible only at initial presentation or can become louder and more noticeable as an existing pericardial effusion resolves, facilitating friction between the visceral and parietal layers. When present, particularly as a triphasic sound, a pericardial friction rub is highly specific for diagnosing acute pericarditis. However, one component may sometimes be absent, resulting in a biphasic sound. This should not be confused with a pleural rub, which may produce a similar sound but is related to respiration rather than the cardiac cycle.[30] Asking the patient to hold their breath while auscultating can help differentiate between the 2 rubs. Even in the absence of a pericardial friction rub, the diagnosis of acute pericarditis should still be considered if clinical suspicion is strong, as its absence does not rule out the diagnosis. More than half of patients with acute pericarditis exhibit characteristic electrocardiogram (ECG) changes that evolve through 4 stages over several weeks, showing significant temporal variability, as mentioned below (see **Image.** Electrocardiographic Findings in Acute Pericarditis).[31] - Stage I typically presents with diffuse, concave ST-segment elevation, accompanied by reciprocal ST depression in the lead AVR. This stage may also feature PR segment elevation in lead AVR (and possibly V1), which can effectively differentiate acute pericarditis from myocardial infarction.[32] Although localized pericarditis can present with ST elevations in specific leads, diffuse changes on the ECG