identified to aid in the diagnosis. Sgarbossa criteria suggest isolated ST elevations in lead aVR can indicate left main coronary artery occlusion in the appropriate clinical setting. Wellens criteria noted deeply biphasic T waves in leads V2 and V3, often predictive of an impending proximal left anterior descending artery occlusion, potentially leading to devastating anterior wall myocardial infarction. Patients presenting with symptoms of MI may not exhibit diagnostic ST-elevation ECG abnormalities. In cases in which patients have typical chest pain but no obvious ST elevation, further investigation for NSTEMI is warranted. Subtle abnormalities on ECG, such as ST depressions and T-wave changes, may be present. Serial ECGs can be helpful in looking for dynamic changes. ECG findings without acute changes or any abnormalities are common in NSTEMI. Diagnostic guidelines can aid practitioners in determining whether additional testing helps identify patients with NSTEMI. Considering the limited sensitivity of ECG in STEMI detection, troponin levels have become an almost universally employed diagnostic tool for patients with a clinical history suggestive of MI. The HEART score has been validated and popularized. The HEART score incorporates the clinician's suspicion, patient risk factors, ECG findings, and troponin levels to assess the patient's risk level. **Laboratory Studies** A cardiac troponin test should be the only cardiac marker test ordered. CDC, lipid profile, renal function, and metabolic panel are relevant labs. Cardiac biomarkers are helpful in the diagnosis of AMI, particularly NSTEMI. Troponin, creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB), and LDH are cardiac markers observed. A troponin test is the most specific lab test for early detection of AMI; levels of the troponin isoforms I and T are measured. Troponin levels peak at 12 hours and remain elevated for 7 days. High-sensitivity troponin has been approved for use in the United States after being heavily studied and utilized in Europe. Although it is more sensitive than conventional troponin, it is also less specific. Thus, potential challenges include numerous false-positive interpretations.[3] The level of CK-MB, an isoenzyme of creatine kinase usually found in the myocardium, reaches its peak at 10 hours and normalizes within 2 to 3 days. CK-MB is also not clinically utilized due to its low specificity, rapid rise, and normalization. LDH levels reach their peak after 72 hours and return to normal within 10 to 14 days. In clinical practice, LDH is not used to diagnose acute MI. B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) should not be ordered as a