confusion may be present. Medication history should also be elicited, including what medications the patient is prescribed and how the patient has been using them. Substance use (drug and alcohol) should be ascertained.[15] On examination, vital signs typically reveal tachycardia and tachypnea. Due to the possibility of an infectious trigger for DKA, the patient may be febrile or hypothermic. Blood pressure may also vary, though hypotension is possible and indicative of a more severe disease process. Patients are often ill-appearing. Kussmaul breathing, which is labored, deep, and tachypneic, may occur. Some providers may appreciate a fruity scent to the patient's breath, indicative of the presence of acetone. Patients may have signs of dehydration, including poor capillary refill, skin turgor, and dry mucous membranes. Abdominal tenderness is possible. In the most severe cases, altered mental status, general drowsiness, and focal neurologic deficits can be appreciated and are signs of cerebral edema. If found, this needs to be treated immediately.[16] ## Evaluation Commonly accepted criteria for diabetic ketoacidosis are blood glucose greater than 250 mg/dl, arterial pH less than 7.3, serum bicarbonate less than 15 mEq/l, and the presence of ketonemia or ketonuria. The normal anion gap is 12 mEq/l. Anion gap greater than 14-15 mEq/l indicates the presence of an increased anion gap metabolic acidosis.[17] Arterial pH may be normal or even raised if other types of metabolic or respiratory alkalosis coexist. Typical examples are vomiting or diuretic use.[18] Blood glucose may be normal or minimally elevated in patients with DKA (\<300 mg/dl), where the underlying risk of hypoglycemia preexists, such as in patients with alcohol use disorder or patients receiving insulin or SGLT2 inhibitors. The majority of patients with DKA who present to the hospital are found to have leukocytosis. Serum sodium in the lab report is falsely low in DKA and can be corrected by adding 1.6 mEq to the measured serum sodium for each 100 mg/dl of glucose above 100 mg/dl. Serum potassium is usually elevated because of a shift of potassium from the intracellular to the extracellular space caused by acidosis and insulin deficiency. However, total body potassium may be depleted or may quickly become depleted with insulin administration. Magnesium is often low and requires repletion as well. The serum phosphate level in DKA may be elevated despite total-body phosphate depletion.[19] Other tests like cultures of urine, sputum, and blood, serum lipase, and chest radiograph may need