Death in these conditions is rarely because of the metabolic complications of hyperglycemia or ketoacidosis alone. The prognosis substantially worsens at the extremes of age in the presence of coma, hypotension, and severe comorbidities.[1] In urban Black patients, poor compliance with insulin was the leading precipitating cause of DKA. Substance abuse is a major contributing factor for non-adherence to therapies. Obesity is common in Blacks with DKA; it is found in more than half of those with newly diagnosed diabetes mellitus. Enhanced patient education and better access to medical care help in reducing the development of these hyperglycemic emergencies.[8] Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) is one of the life-threatening but preventable complications of diabetes. CDC's United States Diabetes Surveillance System (USDSS) indicated an increase in hospitalization rates for DKA from 2009 to 2014, most notably in persons aged less than 45 years.[9] However, overall mortality due to hyperglycemic crisis among adults with diabetes has declined in the U.S. Scope for further improvement remains, especially to further reduce death rates among Black men and to prevent deaths occurring at home.[10] The geriatric population is at particular risk for developing hyperglycemic crises with the development of diabetes. Some of the causes are increased insulin resistance and a decrease in the thirst mechanism. The elderly are particularly vulnerable to hyperglycemia and dehydration, the critical components of hyperglycemic emergencies. With increased diabetes surveillance and aggressive early treatment of hyperglycemia and its complications, morbidity, and mortality from acute diabetic crises in the geriatric population can be significantly reduced.[11] ## Pathophysiology Diabetes mellitus is characterized by insulin deficiency and increased plasma glucagon levels, which can be normalized by insulin replacement.[12] Normally, once serum glucose concentration increases, it enters pancreatic beta cells and leads to insulin production. Insulin decreases hepatic glucose production by inhibiting glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis. Glucose uptake by skeletal muscle and adipose tissue is increased by insulin. Both of these mechanisms result in the reduction of blood sugar. In diabetic ketoacidosis, insulin deficiency and increased counter-regulatory hormones can lead to increased gluconeogenesis, accelerated glycogenolysis, and impaired glucose utilization. This will ultimately cause worsening hyperglycemia. Insulin deficiency and increased counterregulatory hormones also lead to the release of free fatty acids into circulation from adipose tissue (lipolysis), which undergo hepatic fatty acid oxidation to ketone bodies (beta-hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate), resulting in ketonemia and metabolic acidosis.[1] Glucagon is not crucial for the development of ketoacidosis in diabetes mellitus, as has