potassium may be depleted or may quickly become depleted with insulin administration. Magnesium is often low and requires repletion as well. The serum phosphate level in DKA may be elevated despite total-body phosphate depletion.[19] Other tests like cultures of urine, sputum, and blood, serum lipase, and chest radiograph may need to be performed depending upon the case. Pneumonia and urinary tract infections are the most common infections precipitating DKA. Measurement of glycated hemoglobin (A1C) provides information about glucose trends over months. In acute DKA, the ketone body ratio (3-beta-hydroxybutyrate:acetoacetate) rises from normal (1:1) to as high as 10:1. In response to insulin therapy, 3-beta-hydroxybutyrate (3-HB) levels commonly decrease long before acetoacetate (AcAc) levels. The frequently employed nitroprusside test only detects acetoacetate in blood and urine. This test provides only a semiquantitative assessment of ketone levels and is associated with false-positive results. Recently, inexpensive quantitative tests of 3-HB levels have become available for common use, and these tests offer options for monitoring and treating diabetes and other states characterized by the abnormal metabolism of ketone bodies.[20] The serum level of pancreatic enzymes is elevated in DKA due to disorder in carbohydrate metabolism.[21] In DKA, patients presenting with abdominal pain and elevated pancreatic enzymes should not be diagnosed with acute pancreatitis promptly.[22] In the case of a dilemma, imaging like a CT scan would help in distinguishing mild to moderate elevation of enzymes due to DKA from acute pancreatitis. Lipid derangement is commonly seen in patients with DKA. In one study, before insulin treatment, mean plasma triglyceride and cholesterol levels were 574 mg/dl (range 53 to 2355) and 212 mg/dl (range 118 to 416), respectively. Insulin therapy resulted in rapid decreases in plasma triglyceride levels below 150 mg/dl at 24 hours. Plasma apoprotein (apo) B levels were in the normal upper range (101 mg/dl) before treatment and decreased with therapy due to significant decreases in VLDL, but not IDL or LDL apoB.[23] An ECG will help detect ischemic changes or signs of hypokalemia or hyperkalemia. Peaked T waves can signal hyperkalemia, and low T waves with U wave indicating hypokalemia. Imaging: A chest X-ray may be done to rule out consolidation. MRI, and to some degree, CT imaging of the head can detect cerebral edema, but imaging should not delay treatment if cerebral edema is suspected. ## Treatment / Management Fluid resuscitation and maintenance, insulin therapy, electrolyte replacement, and supportive care are