urinary tract infections. Other conditions like alcohol abuse, trauma, pulmonary embolism, and myocardial infarction can also precipitate DKA. Drugs that affect carbohydrate metabolisms, such as corticosteroids, thiazides, sympathomimetic agents, and pentamidine, may precipitate DKA. Conventional, as well as atypical antipsychotic drugs, may also cause hyperglycemia and rarely DKA.[1] SGLT2 inhibitors can predispose to diabetic ketoacidosis via multiple mechanisms. When SGLT2 inhibitors are used together with insulin, insulin doses are often decreased to avoid hypoglycemia. A lower dose of insulin may not be sufficient to suppress lipolysis and ketogenesis. SGLT2 is also expressed in pancreatic α-cells. SGLT2 inhibitors promote glucagon secretion and may decrease urinary excretion of ketone bodies, leading to an increase in plasma ketone body levels as well as hyperglycemia and DKA.[2] While hyperglycemia is typically the hallmark of DKA, a small subset of patients may experience euglycemic DKA. Euglycemic DKA results in a high anion gap metabolic acidosis with positive serum and urine ketones when serum glycemic levels are less than 250 mg/dL. SGLT-2 inhibitors may precipitate euglycemic DKA.[3] One of the major causes of recurrent DKA in the inner-city population in the United States is non-compliance with insulin. Socioeconomic and educational factors play a significant role in poor adhesion to medications, including insulin. A recent report suggests that cocaine abuse is an independent risk factor associated with DKA recurrence.[4] ## Epidemiology Diabetic ketoacidosis incidence ranges from 0 to 56 per 1000 person-years, shown in different studies from different geographic areas. DKA has a higher prevalence rate among women and non-Whites. Incidence is higher among patients using injectable insulin compared to the subcutaneous insulin infusion pumps.[5] Rates of DKA among children varies widely from country to country. The lowest incidence was found in Nigeria (2.9 cases per 100,000). The highest incidence rate was found in Sweden and Finland, with 41.0 and 37.4 per 100,000.[6] In the United States, one study reported nursing home residents accounted for 0.7% of DKA. Increased mortality was associated with nursing home residence among patients with DKA.[7] Mortality rate greater than 5% has been reported in the elderly and patients with concomitant life-threatening illnesses. Death in these conditions is rarely because of the metabolic complications of hyperglycemia or ketoacidosis alone. The prognosis substantially worsens at the extremes of age in the presence of coma, hypotension, and severe comorbidities.[1] In urban Black patients, poor compliance with insulin was the leading precipitating cause of DKA. Substance