sepsis tend to have long hospital stays and high mortality. The most important cause of mortality is cerebral edema, usually seen in younger patients. The cerebral edema is primarily due to the intracellular shifts. Another important cause of morbidity is renal dysfunction. A recent study has noted that among patients with type-2 diabetes mellitus who develop DKA, there is a high risk of stroke within the first six months after the event. ## Complications Hypoglycemia is the most common complication of diabetic ketoacidosis while being treated, occurring in an estimated 5–25% of patients with DKA.[37] Acute adverse outcomes of hypoglycemia include seizures, arrhythmias, and cardiovascular events. Hourly blood sugar monitoring is needed in the acute phase of treatment. Hypokalemia is common. Severe hypokalemia can cause muscle weakness, cardiac arrhythmias, and cardiac arrest.[8] Monitoring and management are described in this article under the DKA management section in detail. Other possible electrolyte disturbances are hyperchloremia, which can occur in up to 1/3rd of patients, and hypomagnesemia, and hyponatremia.[42] Cerebral edema is less common in adults than in children. Risk factors include younger age, new-onset diabetes, longer duration of symptoms, the lower partial pressure of carbon dioxide, severe acidosis, low initial bicarbonate level, low sodium level, high glucose level at presentation, rapid hydration, and retained fluid in the stomach.[39] Rhabdomyolysis may occur in patients with DKA though it occurs more commonly with HHS. It may result in acute kidney failure. Severe hypophosphatemia in relation to DKA can also cause rhabdomyolysis.[43] Acute respiratory failure could be associated with DKA. Causes could be pneumonia, ARDS, or pulmonary edema. Two varieties of pulmonary edema in DKA have been recognized, secondary to elevated pulmonary venous pressure, and because of increased pulmonary capillary permeability.[44] TTP and myocarditis have also been described with DKA. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Education on the disease process of diabetes, including short and long term complications, should be given to all patients. Patients should be taught how and when to check their glucose. Patients should receive education about how to use oral hypoglycemic meds and/or insulin, their side effects, and the importance of compliance. Dietitians, nurses, and multi-disciplinary home health can be important members of the team in assisting with this education. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Diabetic ketoacidosis is a life-threatening complication of diabetes, and any delay in treatment can lead to death. The disorder can present with varied signs and symptoms