increased counterregulatory hormones also lead to the release of free fatty acids into circulation from adipose tissue (lipolysis), which undergo hepatic fatty acid oxidation to ketone bodies (beta-hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate), resulting in ketonemia and metabolic acidosis.[1] Glucagon is not crucial for the development of ketoacidosis in diabetes mellitus, as has previously been mentioned; however, it may accelerate the onset of ketonemia and hyperglycemia in situations of insulin deficiency.[13] Patients treated with SGLT2 are at increased risk of developing euglycemic DKA. Diuresis induced by hyperglycemia, dehydration, hyperosmolarity, and electrolyte imbalance results in a decrease of glomerular filtration. Due to worsening renal function, hyperglycemia/hyperosmolality worsens. Potassium utilization by skeletal muscle is also impaired by hyperosmolality and impaired insulin function. This results in intracellular potassium depletion. Osmotic diuresis also leads to loss of potassium resulting in low total body potassium. The potassium level in patients with DKA varies, and a patient's normal plasma potassium level might indicate low total body potassium.[4] Hyperosmolarity appears to be the main factor responsible for the lowering of consciousness in patients with diabetic ketoacidosis.[14] New data suggests that hyperglycemia leads to a severe inflammatory state and an increase in proinflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-beta, -6, and -8), C-reactive protein, lipid peroxidation, and reactive oxygen species, as well as cardiovascular risk factors, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 and free fatty acids in the absence of apparent infection or cardiovascular pathology. After insulin therapy and IV fluid hydration, the pro-inflammatory cytokines return to normal values within 24 hours.[1] ## History and Physical The patient with diabetic ketoacidosis may present with a myriad of symptoms and physical exam findings. Patients may have symptoms of hyperglycemia like polyphagia, polyuria, or polydipsia. As patients become more volume-depleted, they may experience decreased urine output, dry mouth, or decreased sweating indicative of dehydration. They may complain of many other symptoms, including anorexia, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and weight loss. If there is a superimposed infection that triggered the episode of DKA, the patient may have other infectious symptoms like fever, cough, or other urinary symptoms. In patients who may be developing cerebral edema, headache, or confusion may be present. Medication history should also be elicited, including what medications the patient is prescribed and how the patient has been using them. Substance use (drug and alcohol) should be ascertained.[15] On examination, vital signs typically reveal tachycardia and tachypnea. Due to the possibility of an infectious trigger