unit for close monitoring is advised. Patients with a history of biphasic reactions, severe reactions, beta-blocker use, older, those who live alone, or those with poor access to health care or deemed at risk should be monitored longer. Along with the prescription for an epinephrine pen, antihistamines and corticosteroids are appropriate for 3 to 5 days. If the inciting source is unknown and the patient has a prolonged time before follow-up, consider corticosteroid use for 1 to 2 weeks with an appropriate taper. Also, consider writing for multiple epinephrine autoinjectors to ensure they are kept in various locations (home, school, work, and vehicle). Educate and document the need for 24-hour access to the epinephrine autoinjector if symptoms begin to recur. Patients with severe allergic reactions and anaphylaxis who take beta-blockers are at greater risk for prolonged or more severe symptoms; consider other classes of medication if possible. Patients may also consider obtaining medical alert bracelets or the like for assistance in the future. ## Complications The main complications which can occur following an anaphylactic reaction include the following: - Wheeze - Stridor - Hypoxemia - Hypotension - End-organ dysfunction and - Death ## Deterrence and Patient Education The patients should be provided with multiple epinephrine autoinjectors with 24-hour access and educated to use them when symptoms recur. Patients should be made aware of the importance of wearing medical alert bracelets or the like for assistance in the future. ## Pearls and Other Issues There is no absolute contraindication to treatment with epinephrine in anaphylaxis. Treatment includes airway, decontamination, epinephrine 1:1000 0.3 to 0.5 mg IM, and a fluid bolus. Then start secondary treatments. Avoidance of inciting agents is the key to prevention. Patients should always be provided with an epinephrine auto-injector and instructed on how to use it. Patients should also be given outpatient follow-up with an allergist and immunologist to assist in the determination of inciting agents and prevention of future reoccurrences. Once the patient is stabilized, short-term desensitization procedures can be undertaken. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes **An Evidence-based Approach to Anaphylaxis** Anaphylaxis is a rapid systemic and unpredictable disorder that is life-threatening. The disorder often occurs after exposure to certain antigens, mostly insect venom, food, or medications. The condition is immune-mediated and rapidly induces symptoms. For those who have not encountered anaphylaxis, the diagnosis can be difficult. In the United States, the rates of anaphylaxis have doubled