in the throat," persistent clearing of the throat, or difficulty breathing are all concerning symptoms of anaphylaxis and should be treated aggressively. Other respiratory symptoms include hoarseness, wheezing, and stridor. Rapid treatment should be initiated with intramuscular epinephrine if any of these symptoms are present. Anaphylaxis is a rapidly evolving presentation, usually within 1 hour of exposure. Roughly half of the anaphylactic-related fatalities occur within this first hour; therefore, the first hour after the initial symptom onset is the most crucial for treatment. It is important to note that the more rapid the onset and progression of symptoms, the more severe the disease process. Morbidity and mortality are most often related to loss of airway and distributive shock. Early recognition and aggressive treatment greatly reduce the risk of adverse outcomes. The first hour is not the only time of concern, however, as anaphylactic reactions can also occur biphasically in up to 20% of cases. Even after successful management of the initial presenting symptoms, there can be a recurrence of symptoms peaking 8 to 11 hours after the initial reaction. While the biphasic response is only clinically significant in 4 to 5% of patients with diagnosed anaphylaxis, the potentially fatal second reaction should not be dismissed after treatment of the initial reaction. While most of the focus is on the above symptoms of respiratory, cutaneous, and hypotension, it is important to understand and evaluate for any other signs of end-organ damage from hypo-perfusion. This may include abdominal pain and cramps, vomiting, hypotonia, syncope, or incontinence. Gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms occur in 25 to 30% of patients. While the loss of airway control due to laryngeal edema is the primary concern, one must not fail to recognize anaphylaxis in a patient who does not endorse upper airway edema or respiratory complaints. ## Evaluation Diagnosing anaphylaxis is clinical; thus, laboratory studies or other diagnostics are unnecessary. Most anaphylactic deaths occur within the first hour after antigen exposure. Rapid recognition and action are imperative.[2][12][13] Consideration for anaphylaxis is appropriate in the presence of 2 or more involved systems, even in the absence of airway involvement or hypotension (see above). A consensus criterion has been constructed to improve clinical recognition to prevent delayed treatment, as this poses a great risk to patients. See **Image.** Anaphylaxis. **Clinical Criteria for Anaphylaxis (1 of the following with onset within minutes to hours)**\* _Unknown exposure to an antigen yet rapidly