radiology, vascular surgery, interventional neuroradiology, or interventional cardiology, depending on the specific study or procedure. Angiography lab nurses and nurse managers ensure the safety of patients before, during, and after the procedure, and they must possess critical care and cardiovascular monitoring skills. Radiology technicians in the angiography room possess the technical skills for vascular imaging and cardiovascular monitoring to ensure the safety of patients. ## Preparation Patients' preparations before conventional angiography are individualized based on the patients' characteristics, type of angiography that is planned, and the indication. All patients undergoing conventional angiography should be well hydrated to minimize the risk of contrast medium-induced nephrotoxicity. Fasting for 6 t 8 hours may be required in certain circumstances. Patients with impaired renal function, diabetic patients on metformin, patients on antiplatelet or anticoagulant agents, and those with prior history of allergy to iodinated contrast should be appropriately evaluated before angiography to ensure the safety of the procedure. ## Technique or Treatment Access for angiography is gained via a large or medium-sized artery, and location varies according to the procedure. The femoral route is usually used as a retrograde approach for procedures involving the iliac vessels, the abdominal and thoracic aorta, the upper limbs, and the head and neck. Due to its large caliber, it allows for larger devices such as stents or occlusive aortic balloons. The radial approach is now commonly used in coronary angiography, as it comes with a lower risk of complications compared to the previous femoral or brachial routes. Larger size sheaths are easily accommodated via the femoral route, and often percutaneous suture devices and collagen plugs are used. For angiography of the lower limbs, an antegrade femoral approach or a popliteal approach is used. An appropriate catheter is introduced via the access site, using a system of guide wires, and advanced to the appropriate vessel depending on the particular procedure. A contrast medium is introduced to outline the vasculature distal to the catheter tip. The X-ray images taken may be still or fluoroscopic, using digital subtraction angiography (DSA) technique, which is obtained by taking the images at 2 to 3 frames per second. The degree of stenosis or other abnormalities is identified by visual assessment. Imaging of the thoracic aorta begins by looking at the aortic root, the ascending aorta, the aortic arch, and the proximal descending aorta. The patient's head is tilted to the right and in the