the scope of angiography to include non-invasive techniques using CT and magnetic resonance imaging technologies. In CT angiography (CTA), intravenous contrast is administered via a peripheral vein, and triple-phase CT is usually acquired. CTA is based on high-resolution CT data acquisition, with subsequent angiographic two or three-dimensional reconstruction. Advances and adaptations of CTA principles have been of immense benefit to patients with cardiovascular diseases. Whereas this is an excellent first-line investigation and offers information regarding the surrounding soft tissues, it is less useful in investigating blood flow to the extremities due to the small diameter. Interventional angiography provides higher resolution imaging and can detect changes in the small vessels.[1] Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA): Clinical applications of MRA have become more salient for the patient and the clinician, especially in this era of rapid advances in imaging techniques. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) relies on the intrinsic magnetic trait of body tissues in an external magnetic field. It does not require ionizing radiation.[2] The details of CTA and MRA are beyond the scope of this review. ## Anatomy and Physiology The complete anatomy of the vascular system is beyond the scope of this article. Key anatomical structures relevant to angiography will be discussed. The aorta starts at the aortic root, which in healthy individuals measures up to 4.3 cm.[3] The aorta gives off the left and right main coronary arteries at the level of the sinus of Valsalva. It then continues as the ascending aorta, before turning into the aortic arch. Three important branches originate from the arch: - The brachiocephalic trunk divides to form the right common carotid and right subclavian arteries. - The left common carotid artery further divides to form the internal and external carotid arteries. The internal carotid artery, together with the vertebral artery, will form the circle of Wilis, while the external carotid artery gives off the superior thyroid artery, the ascending pharyngeal artery, and the lingual artery. Other branches of the external carotid artery include the facial artery, the occipital artery, the posterior auricular artery, the maxillary artery, and the superficial temporal artery - The left subclavian artery The subclavian artery is divided into three sections by the scalenus anterior muscle. The first part gives off the vertebral artery, which supplies blood to the vertebrobasilar system and the circle of Willis. The other arteries that originate from the first part are the internal mammary artery and