as cold and pale skin, perspiration, propped-up position in bed, gasping for breath, or frothy pink sputum - Cardiogenic shock signs include cool, clammy skin, severe nail beds and lips cyanosis, and hemodynamic instability. - Tachycardia - Uncomplicated cases may be normotensive, while previously hypertensive patients may exhibit an adrenergic response with elevated blood pressure. In cardiogenic shock, the systolic blood pressure is typically \<90 mmHg. - Fever may present in extensive ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). - Tachypnea can occur due to anxiety, stress, or heart failure. Cheyne-Stokes respiration (periodic breathing) may be observed in cardiogenic shock, heart failure, or prior cerebrovascular disease cases. - Jugular venous pressure (JVP) is usually normal in anterior STEMI. - Carotid pulse may be weak if stroke volume is reduced, and it may be brief and sharp in cases of mitral regurgitation or ventricular septal rupture with a left-to-right shunt. In addition, pulsus alternans (alternating strong and weak pulses) may be present in severe left ventricular dysfunction. - Pulmonary rales may be auscultated in the chest if heart failure is present. - Precordial palpation may reveal normal findings or palpable S4 (forceful atrial contraction to fill a non-compliant left ventricle due to ischemia). Outward movement of a dyskinetic left ventricle may coincide with an S3 sound. - Precordial auscultation may reveal a soft or muffled S1, paradoxical splitting of S2 (in the presence of left bundle branch block), an S3 sound (indicative of severe left ventricular dysfunction or increased flow due to mitral regurgitation or ventricular septal rupture), and an S4 sound (almost universally present). In addition, a pansystolic murmur of mitral regurgitation or a pansystolic murmur with a thrill of ventricular septal rupture may be heard. Finally, frictional rubs may occur, typically appearing on the 2nd to 3rd day (but can range from 1 day to 2 weeks). ## Evaluation **Electrocardiogram (ECG):** Anterior wall ischemia or infarction is typically characterized by ST elevation in some or all of leads V1 through V6 on an ECG. The ECG findings can help predict the occlusion site in the left anterior LAD relative to its major side branches.[19] In AWMI, specific patterns of ST-segment elevation and depression can provide diagnostic information. The ECG findings in anterior MI also have prognostic implications. A greater number of leads with ST-segment elevation indicates a larger area of infarction and is associated with an increased risk of mortality.[20] - ST-segment