an elevation in cardiac biomarkers, coupled with evidence of acute myocardial ischemia, which can include angina, electrocardiogram (ECG) changes, or echocardiographic evidence of wall motion abnormalities. Anterior wall myocardial infarction (AWMI) occurs when there is a reduction in blood supply to the anterior wall of the heart, resulting from occlusion of the left anterior descending artery (LAD). Anterior myocardial infarction is associated with higher mortality and morbidity than other acute myocardial infarctions locations. It is linked to increased in-hospital mortality, greater reduction in left ventricle ejection fraction, and a higher incidence of congestive heart failure compared to infarctions occurring in other areas of the heart.[2][3] Anterior myocardial infarction can be classified into different categories based on the anatomical location of the occlusion in the left anterior descending (LAD) artery. These categories are as follows: 1. Proximal LAD: Proximal to first septal perforator. On ECG findings, ST elevation is evident in leads V1-V6, I, and aVL. It may also present as a new bundle branch block or a fascicular block. 1. Mid-LAD: Distal to the first septal perforator but proximal to the first large diagonal branch. ECG findings reveal ST elevation in leads V1-V6, I, and aVL. Bundle branches are usually preserved. 1. Distal LAD: Distal to large diagonal or large diagonal itself. ECG findings show ST elevation in leads V1-V4, I, aVL, V5, or V6. ## Etiology **Plaque Rupture (also known as plaque fissure)** \*\*\*\* Most AWMIs occur due to the disruption of atherosclerotic plaque, leading to exposure to thrombogenic contents. A thrombus forms when blood flow encounters the necrotic core within the coronary artery. Atherosclerotic plaque rupture, also known as plaque fissure, is characterized by a necrotic core with an eroded thin cap, followed by thrombus formation, and is the most common cause of anterior MI.[4] Anterior myocardial infarction (MI) occurs due to sustained ischemia caused by the occlusion of the left anterior descending (LAD) artery—this acute reduction of blood supply to the myocardium results in necrosis of the heart muscle. The thrombus formed at the site of plaque rupture in anterior myocardial infarction (MI) typically exhibits a white appearance (platelet-rich) at the site of rupture while appearing red at the margins (composed of red blood cells and fibrin). Thrombus formation involves a complex interplay of different cellular and non-cellular components within the blood. The breakdown of the extracellular matrix is a key factor in the exact cause of