Overweight or obesity - Age and gender - Inflammation - Diet - high glycemic index and low fiber, red meat, trans-fatty acid. - Lack of exercise ## Epidemiology The incidence of acute myocardial infarction demonstrates an age-dependent increase and exhibits variation with gender. Findings from the Framingham study revealed that over 10 years, the incidence of MI was 12.9 per 1,000 males (aged 30 to 34) and 5.2 per 1,000 females (aged 35 to 44). This increased by 8 to 9 times in people aged 55 to 64.[7] However, AMI's epidemiology has changed with advancements in diagnosis and management. A 2000 to 2014 study analyzed the annual change in percentages for AMI hospitalizations, including ST-elevation and non-ST elevation MI. The findings indicate a significant decline in AMI hospitalizations per 100,000 person-years across all ethnicities after adjusting for age and gender.[8] Across the United States, a notable disparity exists in outcomes for AMI, with certain states experiencing poorer results. Lagging states exhibit higher incidence and prevalence rates of AMI, increased mortality associated with AMI, and lower life expectancy overall.[9] Compared with the developed world, South-Asian countries face a relatively higher burden of AMI and coronary artery disease (CAD).[10] CAD remains a significant public health concern. According to 2013 data, cardiovascular disease, including CAD, accounts for approximately 1 in every 3 deaths in the United States.[11] For every hospitalized patient with MI, an estimated 30 patients have stable angina. Furthermore, the prevalence of CAD increases with age for both men and women.[12] While the prevalence of CAD has not decreased, the mortality rate from MI has declined. This encouraging trend can be attributed to advancements in treatment strategies and improved management of MI. According to a study, it was found that the incidence of anterior ST-elevation MI (STEMI) accounts for approximately 33% of all STEMIs.[13] Additionally, the incidence of cardiogenic shock in AMI ranges from 5% to 15%.[14] ## Pathophysiology Erosion or rupture of the atherosclerotic plaque in LAD leads to thrombus formation. Erosion of the plaque exposes thrombogenic lipid core or subendothelial tissue, leading to enhanced vascular inflammatory activity and thrombus formation.[15] The disruption of endothelial continuity facilitates the accumulation of thrombogenic blood components, forming a thrombus. The integrity of the fibrous cap is maintained through a delicate equilibrium between collagen synthesis and degradation. Various cytokines, such as interferon-gamma, tumor necrosis factor, macrophage chemoattractant proteins, and macrophage colony-stimulating factors, participate in