therapy in the first trimester of pregnancy is associated with a significant increase in fetal anomalies. ## Contraindications Anticoagulation should be avoided in patients with absolute contraindications, such as in the following conditions: - Active bleeding - Coagulopathy - Recent major surgeries - Acute intracranial hemorrhage - Major trauma Anticoagulation may be considered in those with relative contraindications such as the following conditions: - Gastrointestinal bleed - Low-risk surgeries - Aortic dissection or aneurysm Anticoagulation should be used cautiously in these patients:[20] - Geriatrics - Pregnant patients ## Equipment **Laboratory Monitoring and Testing for Anticoagulation** Measurement and monitoring of anticoagulation levels and concentrations may be indicated in certain situations like: 1. Bleeding 1. Thrombosis 1. Urgent or elective invasive procedures 1. Thrombolysis 1. Overdose 1. Therapeutic levels for multiple conditions 1. Preoperative testing 1. Liver disease Routine monitoring of direct oral anticoagulants (DOAC) levels is not generally indicated unless in certain conditions with high bleeding risk, such as neural procedures that require no anticoagulant effect. Assays for anti-10a or anti-2a activity are recommended methods in these conditions for quantitative information.[21] The initial testing in any individual with suspected bleeding history is listed below. Several point-of-care tests (POCT) for anticoagulation are used in operating rooms. POCT can measure bleedings assays like prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), fibrinogen assay, and whole blood platelet function test. - CBC with platelet count and morphology - Bleeding Time: An insensitive test that is not commonly in use. This test shows how quickly bleeding can stop. The test provides information on platelet disorder, vascular contractility, Von Willibrand disorder (VWD), and thrombocytopenia. - Clotting Time: This is the time it takes for plasma to clot after the addition of different substrates in vitro under standard conditions using the capillary method. The average clotting time is between 8 to 15 minutes. Some studies have disputed the use of clotting time as a screening test. - Prothrombin Time (PT)/INR: This is the initial test used to identify defects in secondary hemostasis. It is the time taken for blood to clot and generates thrombin. A delay in the PT or aPTT indicates the presence of either a deficiency or inhibitor of the clotting factor, except for the antiphospholipid antibody, which can result in delayed aPTT. The normal range for PT levels is approximately 11 to 13 seconds, although levels may vary depending on the laboratory. -