can be with a surgical or transcatheter approach.[30] Symptoms such as exertional dyspnea and angina are relieved in most of the patients, and a majority will experience an increase in exercise tolerance. LVEF often improves after the surgery, but longitudinal strain might still be impaired.[31] The operative mortality in surgical AVR is about 3.2% in patients undergoing isolated AVR.[32][33] It is less than 1% in patients aged less than 70 and having minimal comorbidities. Advanced age should not be considered a contraindication to the surgery, and 30-day mortality is about 4.2%. Transcatheter AVR has transformed the treatment of patients in calcific aortic stenosis over the last decade. It was initially shown to be superior to medical therapy in patients who are not candidates for surgery. But later, it turned out to be superior to the surgical AVR in high-risk and also intermediate-risk patients. The long-term durability of the procedure is yet to be determined. The most common approach used is the transfemoral approach, especially as there is a progressive decrease in the sheath size. A heart valve team of cardiac surgeons, interventional cardiologists, clinical and imaging experts in valve disease, as well as nurses, anesthetists, and geriatricians, as needed, are essential to recommend the choice of surgical AVR versus transcatheter AVR, given the complexity of the issues. Guidelines recommend AVR for aortic stenosis patients depending on the stage of the condition (image 3) and other factors. Recommendations for considering AVR are explained in detail in image 1.[34] The choice of intervention applies to both surgical AVR and transcatheter AVR. The choice of proceeding with surgical AVR or transcatheter AVR, including multiple factors and is shown in images 1 and 3.[35] ## Differential Diagnosis The majority of symptoms, such as syncope and angina, overlap with other disease processes, and consequently, the diagnosis can be missed in an acute setting. Cardiomyopathy and coronary artery disease contribute to most of these. Exertional dyspnea can also be caused by non-cardiac conditions like pulmonary disease. Diagnosis can be challenging, but the standard pulmonary function tests and cardiopulmonary exercise testing can help differentiate between the conditions. Other causes of ejection systolic murmur with or without LV outflow obstruction include hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, aortic sclerosis, and subvalvular stenosis. Subvalvular stenosis can occur from a variety of fixed lesions and can have a dynamic component. A high frequency of supravalvular stenosis occurs in Williams syndrome. A majority of patients