death is common in symptomatic patients, it can occasionally occur in asymptomatic patients as well. 1. Heart failure is one of the most common complications of aortic stenosis. Most patients will have left ventricular hypertrophy with normal systolic function. Diastolic dysfunction develops secondary to hypertrophy and fibrosis and often persists even after AVR. However, some patients can present with systolic dysfunction secondary to the afterload mismatch, resulting in a low ejection fraction. 1. Pulmonary hypertension due to chronic elevation in LV diastolic filling pressure. Another complication associated with aortic stenosis is conduction abnormalities. They occur due to hypertrophy, calcium extension from the valve to the interventricular septum, or existing heart disease. 1. Patients with aortic stenosis are also at an increased risk for infective endocarditis, particularly patients with the bicuspid aortic valve. 1. They are also at increased risk of bleeding, especially GI bleeding, due to acquired von Willebrand syndrome. 1. Cerebral or systemic emboli can occur due to calcific emboli from the valve. ## Deterrence and Patient Education It is necessary to develop and implement effective postoperative education approaches, to be mindful of the results of the strategy, and to provide a dose of educational interventions. Understanding the patient characteristics that predict poor outcomes is important. Doctors and nurses have a critical function in educating patients. Educating asymptomatic patients about the development of potential symptoms is crucial for early intervention. The individualization of content, the usage of digital platforms for dissemination, the availability of one-on-one instruction, and the enhancement in educational and health performance in various sessions have demonstrated positive results. Patients have the benefits and downsides of each intervention reviewed in detail to make an informed decision. They also need to be educated regarding wound dressing and watching for signs of infection in surgical AVR. They should be educated regarding the warning signs if the doctor or nurse needs to be informed. Athletes and women with the desire to become pregnant have to be educated about limiting physical activity and treating the condition before conceiving, respectively. Nutrition, medications, and physical exercise guidelines need to be communicated to the individual to enhance compliance and results. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes An interprofessional treatment will involve an integrated care system combined with an evidence-based approach to manage and evaluate all joint activities. [Level 1] In the event of surgical AVR, an interprofessional team utilizing a systematic, coordinated postoperative treatment plan