greater than 70 years in patients with tri-leaflet valve calcific stenosis. Patients progressively experience a gradual decrease in exercise tolerance, dyspnea on exertion, and fatigue. Severe exertional dyspnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, orthopnea, and pulmonary edema show various degrees of pulmonary venous hypertension. Angina results from the combination of the need for increased oxygen in hypertrophied myocardium and reduction of oxygen delivery secondary to the excessive compression of coronary vessels. Syncope is caused by the decrease in cerebral perfusion occurring during exertion when the arterial pressure declines due to systemic vasodilation and an inadequate increase in cardiac output related to stenosis. It is also due to the malfunction of the baroreceptor mechanism in severe aortic stenosis. Non-cardiac symptoms include gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding and cerebral emboli. GI bleeding is observed in patients with severe aortic stenosis and is often associated with angiodysplasia or other vascular malformations. It manifests from shear stress-induced platelet aggregation and reduction in the von Willebrand factor.[19] Cerebral emboli occur due to microthrombi formation on thickened bicuspid valves. There is also an observed increase in the risk of infective endocarditis in patients with aortic valve disease, especially with a bicuspid valve. On examination, carotid upstroke can be observed on palpation. A slow-rising, late-peaking, and a low-amplitude carotid impulse,_pulsus parvus et tardus,_ is an expected finding in severe aortic stenosis and, when present, is specific to aortic stenosis. On auscultation, the second heart sound may lack a split and can be heard as a single sound during inspiration. It can also become paradoxical when the closure of the aortic valve gets delayed than the pulmonic valve. A mid-systolic ejection murmur, heard best over the right second intercostal space, with radiation into the right neck. However, high-frequency components may radiate to the apex in calcified aortic valves, and this phenomenon is called _the Gallavardin phenomenon._ The murmur becomes softer in LV failure and when there is a fall of stroke volume. ## Evaluation Echocardiography remains the standard approach method to evaluate and follow-up patients with aortic stenosis and stratify them for surgery. It allows imaging of the valve anatomy and the severity of valve calcification and can also allow direct imaging of the orifice area.[20] A more sensitive measure of LV function predicting adverse events, including mortality, is the longitudinal systolic strain imaging.[21][22][23][24] Exercise testing helps in unmasking symptoms in asymptomatic patients, but it should be avoided in symptomatic patients.[25] Cardiac