inhibitor, such as ampicillin-sulbactam, provides coverage against aerobic gram-negative bacteria. Either metronidazole or clindamycin is administered to provide coverage against anaerobic bacteria. This combination of antibiotics is chosen to cover a broad range of potential pathogens that may be involved in appendicitis. However, the choice of antibiotics may vary depending on local antimicrobial resistance patterns and individual patient factors, such as allergies or previous antibiotic exposure. **Surgical Management of Acute Appendicitis** The patient must be kept nil per os (NPO) in the emergency department and hydrated intravenously with crystalloid fluid. Antibiotics should be administered intravenously as per the surgical care team. The surgical team is responsible for obtaining an informed consent from the patient. The gold-standard therapeutic intervention for acute appendicitis is appendectomy. Laparoscopic appendectomy is preferred over the open approach. Most uncomplicated appendectomies are performed laparoscopically. Several studies have compared the outcomes between patients who underwent laparoscopic appendectomy and those who underwent open appendectomy. The results suggested a lower incidence of wound infection, decreased level of postoperative analgesic requirement, and shorter postoperative hospital stays in the former group. The main disadvantage of laparoscopic appendectomy is the longer operative time.[38] There is some disagreement regarding preoperative antibiotic administration for uncomplicated appendicitis. Some surgeons feel routine antibiotics in these cases are not warranted, while others give them routinely. Several studies have also promoted the treatment of uncomplicated appendicitis solely with antibiotics and avoiding surgery altogether.[1][39] Many patients with a presumptive diagnosis of acute appendicitis can be managed with a laparoscopic approach uneventfully. However, several factors predict the need to convert to the open approach. The only preoperative independent factor predicting a conversion during laparoscopic appendectomy is the presence of comorbidities. Moreover, some intra-operative findings, including periappendicular abscess and diffuse peritonitis, are independent predictors of a higher conversion rate and a significant increase in postoperative complications.[40] Patients with a known periappendiceal abscess from a perforated appendix may require a percutaneous drainage procedure, usually performed by an interventional radiologist. Percutaneous abscess drainage allows the inflammation to subside over time, enabling a less technically difficult future laparoscopic appendectomy. Patients with a known periappendiceal abscess should receive broad-spectrum antibiotics, which may be continued for several weeks before elective appendectomy. While laparoscopic appendectomy can be performed in the presence of a periappendiceal abscess, extensive intraoperative irrigation of the abdominopelvic cavity is required, and the trocar sites may need to be left open to heal by secondary