and/or medical therapy. b) Sustained Ventricular Tachycardia Mechanism: Presence of damaged fibers in ischemic heart disease leading to re-entry of current. Some patients do not have structural heart disease. Approximately 10% of the cases are idiopathic. Risk Factors: Structural heart disease and post-myocardial infarction. Signs & Symptoms: Palpitation, hypotension, or syncope. EKG Findings: Monomorphic wide complex tachycardia. Management: Intravenous lidocaine, amiodarone, or procainamide. Catheter ablation is an option too. c) Ventricular Fibrillation Mechanism: Presence of damaged fibers in ischemic heart disease leading to re-entry of current leading to disorganized high-frequency excitation. Patients with Cardiomyopathies can have Ventricular fibrillation due to an increase in end-diastolic pressure, wall tension, or the presence of abnormal channels in ventricular fibers. Risk Factors: Structural heart disease and post-myocardial infarction. Signs & Symptoms: Syncope and death if not treated immediately. EKG Findings: Polymorphic fibrillatory waves. Management: Unsynchronized cardioversion followed by amiodarone. d) Torsades De Pointes: Mechanism: It is usually precipitated by premature ventricular contraction leading to the “R on T phenomenon.” Risk Factors: Congenital long QTc with hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia. Signs & Symptoms: Syncope and death if not treated immediately. EKG Findings: Polymorphic wide-complex tachycardia with a heart rate > 300 bpm. Management: Intravenous magnesium or Isoproterenol, which increases heart rate and decreases QT-duration. Avoid hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia. Chronic therapy with beta-blockers in patients with long QT syndrome. **Bradyarrhythmias:** [9] [10] Bradyarrhythmia is defined as a heart rate below 60 beats per minute (bpm) and comprises several rhythm disorders, including atrioventricular (A-V) blocks and sinus node disorders. Sinus Bradycardia Mechanism: Increased vagal tone. It can be physiological in athletes. Signs & Symptoms: Usually asymptomatic. It can lead to orthostasis or dizziness if pathological. EKG Findings: Sinus rhythm with an upright P wave in lead II and biphasic in V1. Management: No treatment is required unless pathological with an inadequate heart rate increase with leg raise test. Treat with isoproterenol or pacemaker if no relief. Atrioventricular Blocks Mechanism: Atrial impulses are conducted with a delay or not at all when an electrical impulse reaches a tissue that not excitable or is in a refractory period. a) First Degree AV Block: Caused by increased vagal tone or conduction impairment or due to medications. Signs & Symptoms: Generally asymptomatic but can cause dizziness. EKG Findings: PR interval is greater than 200 milliseconds. Management: Usually, no need to treat. b) Second Degree AV Block: Further classified into Mobitz I block,