like palpitation, shortness of breath, irregularly irregular pulse, or even hypotension. EKG Findings: Irregularly irregular narrow complex tachycardia with no discernable P-waves. Management: The management strategy for atrial fibrillation can be classified into rate control or rhythm control. The decision to use a rate control or a rhythm-control strategy depends on the hemodynamic stability, candidacy for ablation, and the presence of co-morbidities. Patients with atrial fibrillation are at increased risk of ischemic-embolic stroke, and anticoagulation recommendations are based on the CHA2DS2VaSc score. The CHA2DS2VaSc score is determined by the presence of the following factors: Congestive heart failure (CHF) with ejection fraction (EF) less than 40%, hypertension, age > 65 years, diabetes mellitus, history of stroke (non-hemorrhagic), or transient ischemic attack (TIA), vascular disease (peripheral vascular disease - PVD), age > 75 years, female sex. Each factor adds a point to the score, except for a history of stroke/TIA, which adds 2 points. - If the score is 0: No anticoagulation or aspirin based on individual assessment - If the score is 1: Aspirin or anticoagulation based on individual assessment. - If the score is 2 or more: Anticoagulation is recommended if not at high risk of bleeding. Rate Control Strategy\*\*:\*\* The heart rate goal is < 110 bpm in patients with chronic atrial fibrillation. It can be achieved with either beta-blockers or calcium channel blockers. Digoxin is usually used as adjuvant therapy in a patient with a "difficult to control" heart rate or in heart failure patients. Cardioversion Strategy:\*\*\*\* Cardioversion is preferred in hemodynamically unstable patients or if rate control fails. It is also preferred in a young patient with no other co-morbidities. Cardioversion can be performed within 36 hrs of the onset of atrial fibrillation, but if the presentation is delayed or is of unknown duration, the absence of thrombi needs to be confirmed with a transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE). If a thrombus is present on an echocardiogram, the patient will need anticoagulation for at least three weeks before cardioversion can be performed. The patient needs to be on anticoagulation for at least four weeks post cardioversion. Various modalities are available for cardioversion therapy and include synchronized electric cardioversion or chemical cardioversion with medications including flecainide, propafenone, amiodarone, or dronedarone. Maze procedure is usually reserved for the patient undergoing other cardiac surgery. - Atrial Flutter[6] Mechanism: Reentrant circuit usually around the tricuspid annulus in the right atrium. Signs & Symptoms: