respiratory acidosis, and the elevated HCO3 indicates a metabolic alkalosis. 1. The value consistent with the pH is PaCO2. Therefore, this is a primary respiratory acidosis. The acid-base that is inconsistent with the pH is the elevated HCO3, indicating a metabolic alkalosis, so there is compensation signifying a non-acute primary disorder because it takes days for metabolic compensation to be effective. 1. Last, the decreased PaO2 indicates an abnormality with oxygenation. However, a history and physical will help delineate the severity and urgency of required interventions, if any. Example 2\[28\]: ABG: pH = 7.45, PaCO2 = 32 mm Hg, PaO2 = 138 mm Hg, HCO3 = 23 mEq/L, the base deficit = 1 mEq/L, and SaO2 is 92%, on room air. 1. pH is in the normal range. Using 7.40 as a cutoff point, it is >7.40, so alkalemia is present. 1. The decreased PaCO2 indicates a respiratory alkalosis, and the HCO3 is normal but on the low end of normal. 1. The value consistent with the pH is PaCO2. Therefore, this is a primary respiratory alkalosis. The HCO3 is in the normal range and, thus, not inconsistent with the pH, so there is a lack of compensation. 1. Last, the PaO2 is within the normal range, so there is no abnormality in oxygenation. When evaluating a patient's acid-base status, it is important to include an electrolyte imbalance or anion gap in synthesizing the information.[31] For example, a patient who presents with diabetic ketoacidosis will eliminate ketones and close the anion gap but with persistent metabolic acidosis due to hyperchloremia due to the strong ionic effect, which is beyond the scope of this article. ## Clinical Significance Arterial blood gas monitoring is the standard for assessing a patient’s oxygenation, ventilation, and acid-base status. Although ABG monitoring has been replaced mainly by non-invasive monitoring, it is still helpful in confirming and calibrating non-invasive monitoring techniques.[1] Frequently performed is the evaluation of oxygenation in the context of severe sepsis, acute respiratory failure, and ARDS In the intensive care unit (ICU) and emergency room settings. Calculating an alveolar-arterial (A-a) oxygen gradient can aid in narrowing down the hypoxemia cause.[25] For example, a gradient’s presence or absence can help determine whether the abnormality in oxygenation is potentially due to hypoventilation, a shunt, V/Q mismatch, or impaired diffusion. The equation for the expected A-a gradient assumes the patient is breathing room air; therefore, the A-a