dyspnea, hypoxemia, and fever. One distinguishing feature of aspiration pneumonitis compared to aspiration pneumonia is the occurrence of hyperacute hypoxemia almost immediately in affected patients. This hyperacute hypoxemia can either progress to severe acute lung injury with or without acute respiratory distress syndrome or resolve entirely within 48 hours of onset.[4] During the initial evaluation, the clinical history should encompass inquiries regarding any episodes of decreased consciousness and swallowing difficulties. Assessing the swallowing efficacy of tablets, solids, and liquids is crucial, especially in older adults. Specific inquiries regarding prior occurrences of pneumonia and periodontal disease should be made. Additionally, obtaining a social history, including details about smoking and alcohol consumption, is imperative for identifying underlying risk factors for aspiration pneumonia.[1] During the physical examination, cognitive assessment should be conducted in older adults, mainly if there is no history of overt aspiration. Additionally, immediate evaluation for hypoxemia is essential to ensure prompt correction.[1] ## Evaluation The diagnostic workup recommended by the British Thoracic Society for evaluating patients with suspected aspiration pneumonia includes:[1] - Plain chest radiograph (CXR) - Computed tomography (CT) of the chest if CXR is inconclusive or if a CT is required to rule out other diagnoses (such as pulmonary embolism) - Microbiological evaluation of sputum and blood - Serum electrolytes, albumin, liver enzymes, and complete blood count - These tests are not diagnostic on their own but are recommended to aid in assessing the severity of the systemic response. - Additionally, some tests, such as albumin levels, can help evaluate nutritional status and predict prognosis. A definitive diagnosis of aspiration requires a videofluoroscopy swallowing study (VFSS), also known as a modified barium swallowing study. Aspiration is confirmed if barium is visible beneath the true vocal cords, a phenomenon termed "silent aspiration" if it occurs without throat clearing or coughing. It's important to recognize that aspiration, particularly microaspiration, is an episodic event that cannot be reliably excluded through a single VFSS study.[1] Other diagnostic studies used to detect aspiration include:[1] - Fiber optic endoscopic evaluation of swallowing (FEES): This study directly visualizes varying consistencies of food boluses during a swallow. - Scintigraphy: They are primarily used in research settings, not a useful clinical test at this time. - Dual-axis accelerometry: Available in specialist centers only **Radiologic Studies** The diagnosis of aspiration pneumonia typically requires radiological evidence of alveolar infiltrates. The presence of infiltrates in dependent areas highly indicates aspiration