reducing the oral bacterial load. Additionally, nutritionists are instrumental in ensuring adequate hydration and caloric intake, especially when patients are prescribed modified consistencies of solids and liquids.[1] Patients at risk for aspiration syndromes should undergo evaluation before experiencing an overt aspiration event or aspiration pneumonia. Clinical assessment by nurses and triage staff is paramount in identifying patients with a high aspiration risk. Many different screening tools are available, with no clear evidence identifying the superiority of one screening tool over another. In frail older patients who do not have identifiable risks of aspiration, such as an acute stroke, simple screening tools should be implemented during initial medical contact to detect aspiration risk. One recent study identified the following 4 questions to screen for aspiration risk:[18] - Do you cough and choke when you eat and drink? - Does it take longer to eat your meals than it used to? - Have you changed the type of food that you eat? - Does your voice change after eating or drinking? An affirmative answer to any of the above questions implies impaired swallowing. The pilot study for this screen reported very high sensitivity with a specificity of 80.4%. The advantage of this screening tool is that it is easy to use and consists of very few items that may be administered by any individual in the healthcare setting without any specific training.[18] When aspiration is identified, multiple strategies are utilized to prevent the risk of aspiration pneumonia. The chin-tuck or chin-down method provides physical support to the pharyngolaryngeal musculature by asking the patient to touch the chin against the chest during swallowing. Specific populations, especially those of Asian descent, also benefit from using angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. ACE inhibitors prevent the breakdown of substance P and help preserve cough mechanisms, thus decreasing the risk of AP in these patients.[1] Other strategies, such as expiratory muscle training in patients with Parkinson disease or voice exercises in patients with glottal closure, have also shown benefits in reducing aspiration frequency. However, the studies supporting their use are small.[1] In several studies, oral care provided via mechanical techniques (toothbrush as opposed to chlorhexidine rinses) has shown reduced aspiration pneumonia frequency and deaths. The British Thoracic Society guidelines recommend nonfoaming fluoride toothpaste in these patients to minimize the risk of aspiration.[1] Modifying the viscosity of fluids and the texture of food in patients with impaired swallowing is