to the patient's risk of drug-resistant infections is recommended to decrease the risk of these complications. Moreover, patients with aspiration pneumonia face risks of malnutrition and dehydration, often linked to the underlying condition predisposing them to aspiration. However, there is an additional risk for malnutrition and dehydration in patients with aspiration pneumonia placed on modified diets, especially if thickened liquids are utilized. Patients may restrict their oral intake to avoid thickened liquids, leading to significantly reduced intake levels (as low as 22% of the daily recommended amount in some cases).[15] Diligent monitoring and community follow-up are imperative to ensure patients maintain sufficient levels of hydration and nutrition on modified diets to prevent these complications. Recurrent hospitalizations and reduced quality of life, particularly among older frail individuals, are common occurrences with aspiration pneumonia. Patients with dysphagia have a higher hospital readmission rate for pneumonia, reaching 6.7 per 100 person-years compared to 3.67 per 100 person-years for those without dysphagia or aspiration history.[15] Multilevel clinical support from nutritionists, speech-language pathologists, physical therapists, and nurses is indispensable to enhance the quality of life for these individuals and decrease their risk of hospital readmissions. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Regular dysphagia screening and testing play a crucial role in identifying and managing swallowing difficulties, thereby mitigating the risk of aspiration pneumonia and improving overall patient outcomes. The European Stroke Organisation and European Society for Swallowing Disorders guidelines advocate for formal dysphagia screening in all patients with acute stroke. This aids in the early diagnosis of dysphagia, prevents post-stroke aspiration pneumonia, and reduces the risk of early mortality.[16] Similarly, in patients with Parkinson disease, early screening and ongoing assessment for dysphagia are essential components of comprehensive care, aiding in timely intervention and reducing the risk of aspiration-related complications.[17] These proactive measures also help tailor interventions to address swallowing impairments and reduce the likelihood of aspiration-related complications. Preventive strategies for aspiration pneumonia should adopt a comprehensive approach involving collaboration among various healthcare professionals. Speech-language pathologists and dieticians play a crucial role in restoring effective swallowing and cough mechanisms, while nursing staff and oral hygienists focus on reducing the oral bacterial load. Additionally, nutritionists are instrumental in ensuring adequate hydration and caloric intake, especially when patients are prescribed modified consistencies of solids and liquids.[1] Patients at risk for aspiration syndromes should undergo evaluation before experiencing an overt aspiration event or aspiration pneumonia. Clinical assessment by nurses and