- Aspiration pneumonitis - CAP - Acute respiratory distress syndrome - Viral Pneumonia - Negative-pressure pulmonary edema: Presents with bilateral symmetric lung infiltrates and occurs due to breathing against a closed airway. It can happen during events such as general anesthesia, choking, or near drowning.[6] ## Prognosis Patients with CAP who have an increased aspiration risk are noted to have higher in-hospital and 30-day mortality. Aspiration risk also increases recurrent pneumonia risk and all-cause readmission rates. Aspiration pneumonia is identified as an independent risk factor for these outcomes, although the lack of robust data prevents specific predictions relating to aspiration pneumonia.[9] Older adults aged over 80 with pneumonia and those with aspiration pneumonia exhibited higher mortality rates, elevated sodium levels, and poorer renal function compared to age-matched controls with pneumonia but without evidence of aspiration.[6] In the US, aspiration pneumonia caused an average of 58,576 deaths per year between 1999 and 2017, with individuals aged 75 or older accounting for 76% of deaths attributable to aspiration pneumonia.[10] Among hospitalized patients with aspiration pneumonia, the mortality rate is approximately 10% to 15%, with the highest risk of poor outcomes observed in patients with older age. Notably, patients with head and neck cancer have a mortality rate of around 20% due to aspiration pneumonia.[1] In patients with Parkinson disease, aspiration pneumonia is associated with a high risk of mortality, even in the early stages of the disease. A large nationwide study from South Korea revealed that two-thirds of patients with Parkinson disease died within 1 year of the first occurrence of AP.[11] As expected, the severity of aspiration pneumonia is a significant predictor of mortality. However, another predictor of mortality in patients with aspiration pneumonia is the underlying nutritional status. Early assessment of nutritional status is recommended in patients with aspiration pneumonia to predict prognosis and facilitate improved clinical outcomes.[12] ## Complications The most prevalent complications of aspiration pneumonia include lung abscesses and empyema. Clinical reports have been published documenting lung abscesses and empyema in patients with aspiration pneumonia attributed to anaerobes and gram-negative bacteria.[13][14] Prompt antibiotic initiation with appropriate regimens tailored to the patient's risk of drug-resistant infections is recommended to decrease the risk of these complications. Moreover, patients with aspiration pneumonia face risks of malnutrition and dehydration, often linked to the underlying condition predisposing them to aspiration. However, there is an additional risk for malnutrition and dehydration in patients with