shares many microbes with the normal flora of the oropharynx. A disequilibrium of oropharyngeal bacterial communities is thought to contribute to decreased lung resistance to colonization and a diminished ability to contain potential pathogens. This notion is supported by the predominance of aerobic gram-negative and gram-positive pathogens as the leading causes of infection in hospitalized patients with aspiration pneumonia. While anaerobic bacteria were historically considered the dominant cause of aspiration pneumonia, they are now regarded as infrequent causative pathogens.[3] The consensus is that aspiration pneumonia is polymicrobial, with aerobic gram-negative bacilli as the predominant pathogens and aerobic gram-positive organisms as the second most common cause.[1] ## History and Physical Inconsistent definitions and diagnostic practices have posed challenges in delineating a clear clinical profile of patients with aspiration pneumonia. The overlap of aspiration events and the typical clinical presentation further complicates distinguishing aspiration pneumonia from aspiration pneumonitis. Broadly, patients with aspiration pneumonia typically exhibit characteristics such as older age, frailty, malnutrition, and bedridden status, often accompanied by multiple comorbidities, especially cerebrovascular disease.[5] Patients with aspiration pneumonia commonly exhibit clinical symptoms associated with CAP, including cough, fever, and malaise, which can obscure the distinction between the 2 conditions. In cases where CAP is suspected, obtaining a comprehensive history regarding current or previous dysphagia, instances of aspiration, coughing during eating or drinking, and other medical conditions predisposing to overt or silent aspiration aids in diagnosing aspiration pneumonia.[5] As outlined earlier, aspiration in patients with pneumonia does not unequivocally signify aspiration pneumonia. However, given the heightened frequency of aspiration events in older adults and the increased pneumonia risk in patients with dysphagia or microaspirations, the current recommendation is to regard aspiration pneumonia as the probable cause of pneumonia in elderly patients, and efforts should be made to evaluate and manage impaired swallowing thoroughly.[5] Conversely, a history of large-volume overt or witnessed aspiration event suggests aspiration pneumonitis rather than aspiration pneumonia.[1] In most cases, the onset of symptoms in aspiration pneumonia is acute. However, it may present subacutely due to less virulent bacteria. Clinical signs and symptoms commonly observed in patients with aspiration pneumonia include dyspnea, hypoxemia, and fever. One distinguishing feature of aspiration pneumonitis compared to aspiration pneumonia is the occurrence of hyperacute hypoxemia almost immediately in affected patients. This hyperacute hypoxemia can either progress to severe acute lung injury with or without acute respiratory distress syndrome or resolve entirely within 48 hours of