- Measure peak flow - Obtain spirometry and also peak expiratory flow rate that can be monitored inside work and outside of work - Skin prick tests can also be performed to test for allergies - Methacholine challenge can be performed - Specific inhalation challenges can also be completed Biomarkers of inflammation are being evaluated for their usefulness in the diagnosis of asthma. Biomarkers include total and differential cell count and mediator assays in sputum, blood, urine, and exhaled air. The National Asthma Education and Prevention Program Expert Panel guidelines for asthma recommend that patients who require daily asthma medications have allergy testing for perennial indoor allergens. When the triggers are found, exposure to allergens should be controlled by various measures as discussed below. For patients whose symptoms are not controlled should be referred to an allergist for immunotherapy Asthma severity is classified as intermittent, persistent-mild, persistent-moderate, and persistent. Several validated questionnaires have also been used to assess asthma control in patients; these include the Asthma Assessment questionnaire, the Asthma Control Questionnaire, and the Asthma Control Test. During the initial visit, asthma, severity, and control should be assessed to initiate treatment. Then asthma control should be evaluated to determine a treatment plan. [4] ## Treatment / Management The goal of asthma care is to reduce impairment, which is the frequency and intensity of symptoms and functional limitations, as well as reducing the risk of future asthma attacks, a decline in lung function, or medication side effects. Achieving and maintaining asthma controls involves a multidisciplinary approach that includes appropriate medication, addressing environmental factors that may cause a worsening of symptoms and help patients learn self-management and monitoring skills and to adjust therapy accordingly. The goal of treatment is to stop symptoms by reducing airway inflammation and hyperreactivity. Currently, asthma medications are classified according to their roles in the overall management of asthma quick versus long-term control. All patients should have available a fast-acting bronchodilator for use as needed. If these are being used for more than 2 days per week or more than 2 times a month for nighttime awakenings, then a controller medication should be prescribed. The quick-acting inhalers are the most effective to reverse airway obstruction and provide immediate symptomatic relief. The most widely used drugs are beta-agonists such as albuterol. Achieving long-term control of asthma requires a multifactorial approach including the avoidance of environmental stimuli that can provoke