a controller medication should be prescribed. The quick-acting inhalers are the most effective to reverse airway obstruction and provide immediate symptomatic relief. The most widely used drugs are beta-agonists such as albuterol. Achieving long-term control of asthma requires a multifactorial approach including the avoidance of environmental stimuli that can provoke bronchoconstriction and airway inflammation as well as monitoring changes in disease activity and sometimes allergen immunotherapy and drug therapy. Inhaled corticosteroids best help patients achieve well-controlled asthma. They work by suppressing airway inflammation and decreasing bronchial hyperresponsiveness. Asthmatics who smoke have less benefit from inhaled corticosteroids than nonsmokers. **Step-Up Therapy: The Goal of Asthma Control** - Step 1: For intermittent asthma, preferred therapy is a short-acting inhaled beta2 agonist. For persistent asthma, daily medication is recommended. - Step 2: Preferred treatment is a low-dose inhaled corticosteroid. - Step 3: A low dose inhaled corticosteroid plus a long-acting inhaled beta2 agonist is recommended, or a medium-dose inhaled corticosteroid. - Step 4: The preferred treatment is a medium-dose inhaled corticosteroid plus a long-acting beta2 agonist. - Step 5: The preferred treatment is high dose inhaled corticosteroid plus a long-acting beta2 agonist and considering omalizumab for people with allergies. - Step 6: The preferred treatment is high-dose inhaled corticosteroid plus a long-acting beta2 agonist plus an oral corticosteroid; consider omalizumab with people with allergies. For steps 2 to 4, also consider allergy immunotherapy and allergy testing. Leukotriene receptor antagonists, cromolyn sodium, and theophylline can be used as alternative treatments but not preferred agents. Leukotriene inhibitors have shown to improve exercise-induced asthma by 50% for children 12 and older. The decision to step up therapy is based on control of symptoms, of how often short-acting inhaler is being used, nighttime awakenings, interference with activity and questionnaires. Compliance, inhaler technique, environmental control, and comorbidities should also be assessed. Consideration to step down therapy if asthma is controlled for at least 3 months. Patients using inhalers should be encouraged to use spacers, especially in children. Studies have shown if the inhaler is used appropriately with a spacer it is just as useful as a nebulizer machine. Allergen and environmental control are very important in asthmatics as well. The primary factor in the environmental control program is the avoidance of dust mites. Sensitivity to dust mites is a strong predictor of asthma and asthma severity. When controlling exposure to dust mites, it is recommended to encase mattresses