evaluate for atrial thrombus secondary to atrial fibrillation and heart structure. It is important to note that a transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) should always be done prior to cardioversion in these patients to minimize the risk of stroke.[7][8] ## Treatment / Management The management of atrial fibrillation in the acute setting depends on hemodynamic stability and risk stratification. In cases where the patient is hemodynamically unstable, it is recommended to carry out immediate cardioversion with anticoagulant therapy. Although TEE is recommended before any cardioversion; however, if the patient is hemodynamically unstable due to a rapid ventricular response, cardioversion may be indicated without prior TEE. If there is evidence of rapid ventricular response, a beta-blocker or calcium-channel blocker should be commenced for rate control. These options can be used in the intravenous (IV) form for rapid response. Usually, a bolus is administered to the patient and then started on a drip if symptoms do not resolve. Digoxin can be considered for rate control but is not advised as a first-line agent pertaining to its adverse effects and tolerance. Amiodarone can also be given as a rhythm control agent but is also not a first-line option in the acute setting. In any case, if the decision to start amiodarone is made, cardiology should be consulted before its administration. In the case of preexisting atrial fibrillation, the patient should be risk-stratified using the CHADs-2-Vasc score, which is helpful in estimating the risk of stroke per year. If the patient receives a 0 score, it is considered "low-risk," and anticoagulation is not recommended in such cases. If the patient receives a score of 1, it falls in the "low-moderate" risk category; the providers should consider anticoagulant or antiplatelet therapy. If the patient receives a score of greater than 2, they are in the "moderate-high" risk category, and anticoagulation therapy is indicated.[2] Rate or rhythm control should also be given to the patient; medications such as beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, amiodarone, dronedarone, and digoxin are available options. HAS-BLED is also a scoring system that can be used to assess the risk of bleeding for the patient. This is a good indicator of bleeding risk for a patient that is being considered for anticoagulation. Non-pharmacological therapy includes ablation therapy. Pacemaker placement is considered in severe cases resulting in heart failure in atrial fibrillation.[9][10][11] **Current guidelines** 1. In patients with AF and elevated CHA2DS2-VASc score of 2 or