or with treatment within 7 days. But they may recur with an unpredictable frequency 1. Persistent AF is when the AF is continuous and lasts for more than 7 days, and fails to terminate spontaneously. 1. Long-standing AF is when the continuous AF lasts more than 12 months 1. Permanent is when AF is accepted, and no further treatments are attempted to restore or maintain normal sinus rhythm 1. Non-valvular AF occurs in the absence of rheumatic mitral valve disease, mitral valve repair, or a prosthetic heart valve. **CHA2DS2-VASc score** - Heart failure - 1 - Hypertension - 1 - Age more than 75 - 2 - Diabetes - 1 - Stroke, transient ischemic attack- 2 - Peripheral vascular disease - 1 - Age 65-74 - 1 - Female sex - 1 ## Prognosis AF is associated with a high risk of thromboembolism and death. Evidence shows that rhythm control does not offer a survival advantage over rate control. Patients with AF have multiple admissions and anticoagulation-related complications over their lifetime. The risk of stroke is ever-present, and the overall quality of life of patients is poor. Finally, the management of atrial fibrillation is prohibitively expensive, with most of the financial burden borne by the patient. ## Complications The major side effect of atrial fibrillation is a stroke. Cerebral vascular accidents (CVA) can lead to severe morbidity and mortality. CVA risk can be reduced significantly by anticoagulation with adjunct rate/rhythm therapy. Other complications include heart disease and heart failure secondary. ## Pearls and Other Issues Atrial fibrillation is a commonly encountered disease that affects many individuals. Advancing age is associated with increased prevalence, with the most catastrophic complication being an acute hemorrhagic stroke. Due to the irregularity of the atria, blood flow through this chamber becomes turbulent, leading to thrombus formation. The most common site for this embolus is the atrial appendage. The thrombus can dislodge and embolize to the brain and other parts of the body. It is essential for the patient to seek medical care immediately if they are experiencing chest pain, palpitations, shortness of breath, severe sweating, or extreme dizziness. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Atrial fibrillation is a chronic disorder that can seriously affect the quality of life and costs healthcare billions of dollars each year. Each year, thousands of patients develop stroke and other embolic phenomena, leading to significant disability. The disorder is best managed