disease (PVD), such as hair loss and skin breakdown. The physical exam should focus on identifying the cause of AF. For instance, examining the neck of the patient may give some clues regarding carotid artery disease or thyroid problems. The pulmonary examination may reveal signs of heart failure in the form of rales, and the presence of wheezing may indicate antecedent pulmonary diseases such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). A cardiovascular exam should consist of careful auscultation of all four cardiac posts and palpation of apical impulse, as this would be crucial in diagnosing an underlying valvular pathology. An abdominal exam should consist of palpating the aorta and listening for abdominal bruits. Moreover, hepatomegaly and abdominal distension may indicate heart failure. Subsequently, a careful examination of the central and peripheral nervous system may reveal signs of transient ischemic attack or cerebrovascular accident. ## Evaluation Aside from a detailed history and examination, the ECG is critical in making the diagnosis of atrial fibrillation. On ECG, atrial fibrillation presents with the typical narrow complex "irregularly irregular" pattern with no distinguishable p-waves. Fibrillatory waves may be seen, or they may be absent. The ventricular rate usually ranges between 80 and 180/min. Laboratory work is required to evaluate for the causes of atrial fibrillation, for example, a complete blood count (CBC) for infection, basic metabolic panel (BMP) for electrolyte abnormalities, thyroid function tests to evaluate for hyperthyroidism, and a chest x-ray to evaluate the thorax for any abnormality. Several cardiac diseases are associated with AF; therefore, it is essential to send cardiac biomarkers and B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) to preclude the underlying cardiac disorder. Interventions such as cardiac catheterization may also be needed in certain cases if the history and physical findings are suggestive. It is imperative to evaluate the patient for pulmonary embolism (with the d-dimers test or spiral CT scan) because the right heart strain can lead to atrial malfunctioning and atrial fibrillation. The patient should be risk-stratified for pulmonary embolism using the PERC and/or Wells criteria. In addition, a transesophageal echocardiogram should be done for these patients to evaluate for atrial thrombus secondary to atrial fibrillation and heart structure. It is important to note that a transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) should always be done prior to cardioversion in these patients to minimize the risk of stroke.[7][8] ## Treatment / Management The management of atrial fibrillation in the acute setting