administering appropriate antibiotics does affect mortality.[27] For this reason, broad-spectrum antibiotics targeting the suspected source are recommended, not necessarily the most appropriate antimicrobial agent. Obtaining appropriate cultures is intended to influence care after this acute resuscitation phase has already passed. Lots of emphasis has been placed in the past on the timing and technique by which to obtain a blood culture with the greatest likelihood of returning a true positive result. There has been no correlation between the timing of a blood culture draw and detecting significant bacteremia. Recommendations from the Infectious Disease Society of America (IDSA) emphasize drawing them in a sterile manner from at least two different locations, with the volume of the blood cultured being emphasized rather than timing.[28] Volume Resuscitation, in the acute phase, is recommended as being 30 ml/kg of crystalloid fluids. This fixed number was taken as the average volume of fluid given to patients in the PROCESS[23], ARISE[24], and PROMISE[25] trials. The volume of intravenous fluids to give in early resuscitation is still a point of contention and debate, as half of those patients in the study did not receive 30 ml/kg, and half of those patients required more. The ideal fluid to administer is also a contested point, with a general recommendation for "crystalloid fluids" such as normal saline, Ringer's lactate, or balanced crystalloid solutions from the most recent Surviving Sepsis Campaign guidelines.[8] Recent large trials and reviews on the subject report some benefits with buffered crystalloid solutions (Ringer’s lactate) over normal saline.[29][30] The guidelines for treating and managing sepsis do not reflect these findings. Vasopressors are indicated in septic shock if the condition fails to respond to the intravenous fluid bolus as recommended above. Vasopressors provide additional vascular contraction to assist in maintaining beneficial blood pressure, with a target MAP of greater than 65 mm Hg.[31] The vasopressor choice initially should be norepinephrine, with vasopressin added if norepinephrine after titration dose fails to improve blood pressure by itself. Epinephrine should be used as a second-line agent to norepinephrine. Recommendations at this point are to avoid the use of dopamine except in carefully selected patients. If there is evidence of myocardial dysfunction, recommendations support the addition of a dobutamine infusion to ongoing vasopressor therapy. Vasopressors should be administered through a central venous catheter as soon as the placement is possible.[8] Re-evaluation is critically important to guide the management of these patients after