stage exhibit severe swelling of mitochondria, extensive damage to plasma membranes, and swelling of lysosomes. Cellular death is mainly by necrosis. However, apoptosis also contributes as the mitochondria are believed to leak pro-apoptotic enzymes with swelling. Apoptosis is a pathway of cellular death that is induced by a tightly regulated program that uses its own enzymes to degrade the rest of the cell in the hopes of limiting collateral tissue damage. In sepsis and, more specifically, septic shock, these changes typically are more evident in tissues that are heavily dependent on blood flow and the elimination of cellular by-products, i.e., brain, heart, lungs, kidneys, adrenals, and gastrointestinal (GI) tract. With respect to the kidneys, biopsies from septic patients reveal a wide range of findings with “non-specific morphologic changes,” not acute tubular necrosis, being the most commonly reported finding.[17][18] The lungs are another very commonly affected organ in septic shock as it is known to be somewhat resistant to hypoxic injury. However, in septic shock, changes of diffuse alveolar damage may develop; as a result, notably, findings of interstitial and intra-alveolar edema, inflammation, and fibrin deposition. These findings are also associated with the dreaded complication of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), which will show further fibrin deposition, as a part of these micro-thrombi, in nearly all the vascular territories of the organs named above. The petechial appearance on the skin during DIC is often secondary to the consumption of platelets and clotting factors that are a part of the micro-thrombi. These changes, when viewed in isolation, are reversible; however, once a patient reaches a state where multiple organ systems are involved, the patient usually dies before they have a chance to recover. ## History and Physical The history and physical exam will vary widely depending on where they fall on the continuum from SIRS to septic shock. Important considerations when taking a history in a patient with suspected sepsis are geared toward assessing those risk factors associated with increased mortality or higher incidence of sepsis as well as inquiring about possible sources of infection. Comorbidities associated with morbidity and mortality in sepsis include active cancer, diabetes, chronic lung disease, congestive heart failure, renal insufficiency, and liver disease(cirrhosis). Age, specifically older than 65 years old, has been shown to be an independent predictor of mortality in sepsis. This is because of the association of increasing age with a decrease in the adaptive immune