seen in both cardiac activity and splanchnic vasculature. Further depression of cardiac contractility, in both systolic and diastolic phases, is a result of these circulating inflammatory cytokines. Splanchnic blood flow is also affected and primarily shunted to other organs, especially once hypotension is present. This creates an increased risk for translocation of enteric pathogens and endotoxin across the bowel mucosa and into the systemic circulation, further aggravating the inciting condition. Alternatively, this process has been described in terms of oxygen demands and consumption. Sepsis, at its earliest manifestation, creates an increased need for oxygen locally, accompanied closely by a critical decrease in systemic oxygen delivery, limiting tissue oxygenation as described via various mechanisms above. This is followed by an increase in the systemic oxygen extraction ratio and an accompanying decrease in central venous oxygen saturation (ScvO2) and mixed venous oxygen saturation (SvO2). When the limits for how much oxygen can be extracted from blood are reached, cellular metabolism switches to anaerobic metabolism, further contributing to lactate production, as noted above. The failure to increase the oxygen extraction ratio and thus increase systemic oxygen consumption is secondary to the impairment of microvascular oxygen perfusion as well as mitochondrial dysfunction. This is the basis for following increasing lactate levels or decreasing venous oxygen saturation as a marker for disease severity and prognosis.[14] ## Histopathology The cellular and tissue changes induced by a shock are essentially those also seen in hypoxic injury states. As oxygen tension within the cell decreases, there is a loss of oxidative phosphorylation and decreased generation of ATP. The sodium pump fails, and potassium is lost with a concurrent influx of sodium and water, causing the cell to swell in size. With worsening hypoxia, there is a progressive loss of glycogen and decreased protein synthesis. As hypoxic injury continues, the cytoskeleton will disperse, and “blebs” will appear. Mitochondria will also exhibit swelling at this stage while the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) remains dilated. If oxygen is restored, a lot of these processes and injuries can be reversed. If hypoxia persists, irreversible injury and cellular necrosis will ensue. Cells at this stage exhibit severe swelling of mitochondria, extensive damage to plasma membranes, and swelling of lysosomes. Cellular death is mainly by necrosis. However, apoptosis also contributes as the mitochondria are believed to leak pro-apoptotic enzymes with swelling. Apoptosis is a pathway of cellular death that is induced by a tightly regulated