may increase survival if given at the time of antibiotic administration for _S. pneumoniae_ infections. It has not been shown to improve outcomes for meningitis caused by other bacteria. Patients suspected of having meningococcal meningitis should be placed in droplet precautions until they have received 24 hours of antibiotics. Close contacts should also be treated prophylactically. Ciprofloxacin, rifampin, or ceftriaxone may be used. Close contacts are defined as people within 3 feet of the patient for more than 8 hours during the seven days before and 24 hours after receiving antibiotics. People exposed to the patient's oral secretions during this time should also be treated.[13][14][15] ## Differential Diagnosis - All causes of altered mental status and coma - Brain Abscess - Brain Neoplasms - Central nervous system (CNS) vasculitis - Delirium Tremens (DTs) - Emergent Management of Subarachnoid Hemorrhage - Encephalitis - Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV) in Emergency Medicine - Leptospirosis - Meningeal carcinomatosis - Noninfectious meningitis, including medication-induced meningeal inflammation - Pediatrics, Meningitis and Encephalitis - Stroke - Subdural empyema ## Prognosis The mortality for bacterial meningitis varies from 10-15%. Survival depends on early recognition of acute bacterial meningitis, followed by administration of appropriate antibiotic therapy. Delay in treatment can result in increased intracranial pressure causing decreased cerebral perfusion and may rapidly lead to loss of consciousness and death. ## Complications It is estimated that 25% of people with meningococcal disease, will have complications. Complications are not uncommon in other causes of bacterial meningitis. Severity can vary from person to person, and they can be temporary or permanent. Delayed therapy can result in vascular inflammation with cerebral infarction. Other long-term complications include - seizures - problems with memory and concentration - problems with movement, balance and co-ordination - learning difficulties - speech problems - vision loss - hearing loss ## Pearls and Other Issues Vaccines are available to help prevent bacterial meningitis. Children can get a meningitis vaccine around ages 11 to 12, followed by a booster vaccine at age 16. Bacterial meningitis is more common in infants under 1 year of age and young people ages 16 to 21. College students living in dorms or other close quarters are at increased risk. In addition, adults with underlying immunocompromise state such as status post splenectomy, are at higher risk. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Bacterial meningitis is a serious CNS infection with high morbidity and mortality. To improve patient