changes resulting in systemic vasodilatation can be attributed in large part to the dysfunction of the vascular endothelium and mitochondria. Part of the inflammatory process can be attributed to the enhanced production of nitric oxide (NO), which is a free radical and is produced in vascular endothelial cells. In addition to the inflammatory processes, sepsis is also associated with microvascular thrombosis. This is caused by activation of the clotting cascade with tissue factor and exacerbated by decreased anti-coagulation and impaired fibrinolysis. This leads to increased thrombus formation and therefore worsening tissue hypoperfusion. With thrombus formation and tissue hypoperfusion, the vascular endothelial cells also experience a loss of function with cadherin, and tight junctions are disrupted, leading to further capillary leak and increased interstitial edema. To worsen this effect, red blood cells (RBC) have been shown to have decreased deformability during this inflammatory phase and will further contribute to poor tissue oxygenation. Vasodilation, disruption of the vascular endothelium, decreased RBC deformability, with the ensuing hypotension all contribute to worsening tissue oxygenation.[4][14] Impaired tissue oxygenation will also cause mitochondrial dysfunction and lead to the shunting of pyruvate away from the Kreb cycle, which, when it accumulates, will be converted to lactate as a means of continuing metabolism in the critically ill. Hyperlactatemia in sepsis is the result of multiple metabolic adjustments, not simply tissue hypoperfusion. Conditions that are known to favor lactate production include systemic hypoperfusion necessitating anaerobic metabolism, regional hypoperfusion, and microcirculatory dysfunction. Additionally, increased aerobic glycolysis can produce an excess of pyruvate that overwhelms pyruvate dehydrogenase used to take the pyruvate into the Kreb cycle for aerobic metabolism. With the excess pyruvate present, a portion will be shunted to lactate conversion and accumulate in the cytoplasm prior to being dispersed in the bloodstream. This occurs in white blood cells, which rely on anaerobic metabolism, especially when activated during periods of infection or inflammation, and have been shown to contribute to increased blood levels of lactic acid. This increased production and decreased clearance of lactate results in hyperlactatemia.[15][16] As this disease process progresses, further inflammatory cytokines are released, resulting in effects seen in both cardiac activity and splanchnic vasculature. Further depression of cardiac contractility, in both systolic and diastolic phases, is a result of these circulating inflammatory cytokines. Splanchnic blood flow is also affected and primarily shunted to other organs, especially once hypotension is present. This creates an increased risk for