carefully selected patients. If there is evidence of myocardial dysfunction, recommendations support the addition of a dobutamine infusion to ongoing vasopressor therapy. Vasopressors should be administered through a central venous catheter as soon as the placement is possible.[8] Re-evaluation is critically important to guide the management of these patients after the initial resuscitation period. This typically includes a thorough clinical examination and the concurrent variables of heart rate, blood pressure, urine output, and respiratory rate, among others. There have been multiple attempts at clearly defining these goals for acute resuscitation, and have included, at different times, measuring central venous pressure (CVP), mixed venous oxygen saturation (SvO2), trending lactic acid, stroke volume measurements, mean arterial pressure (MAP), and urine output. CVP measurements have been fraught with imprecision and not found to be useful in predicting whether or not a patient will respond to additional intravenous fluid administration. Mean arterial pressure is the force behind perfusion in the peripheral organs and tissues and should be the goal for both fluid and vasopressor administration. An elevated lactic acid, while not directly a result of tissue perfusion, especially in sepsis, has been directly related to increased mortality. Lactate clearance has also been suggested as a goal for early resuscitation, as a decrease of only 10% in the first 6 hours corresponded to an 11% decrease in the likelihood of mortality, as compared to patients who were unable to achieve this.[15][16] However, there is weak evidence of a reduction in mortality when lactate-guided resuscitation is employed over usual care.[8] For compliance with CMS core measures, as noted in the guidelines above, documented reassessment of volume status and tissue perfusion should include vital signs, cardiopulmonary, capillary refill, pulse, and skin findings. The widely held belief that in sepsis tissue, hypoxia was the problem led to liberal transfusions of packed red blood cells to increase oxygen delivery in the early years of sepsis management. This, however, has since been disproven with the transfusion requirements in septic shock trials addressing mortality with a lower threshold transfusion of 7 g/dL versus a 9 g/dL. Targeting a lower transfusion threshold of 7 g/dL in septic patients is the current recommendation unless there are signs of critical coronary disease, myocardial ischemia, or acute hemorrhage.[8][32] Corticosteroids have 2 important implications in severe sepsis and septic shock, namely that they have anti-inflammatory activity and that they magnify the vaso-constricting response to catecholamines. The