close personal contact with others in places like college dorms or military barracks. ## Pathophysiology Bacteria require access to the meninges to cause meningitis. There are several mechanisms for entry. Bacteremia, or bacteria in the blood, can result in bacteria crossing the blood-brain barrier. This can only be accomplished by certain bacteria, most notably _N. meningitidis_ and _S. pneumoniae_. Direct extension of otitis media or sinusitis to the central nervous system (CNS) may also occur. Dural defects, either congenital or acquired, allow bacteria to enter the CNS. Nosocomial bacterial meningitis is the result of the manipulation of the meninges during neurosurgical procedures. Invasion of bacteria into the subarachnoid space results in inflammation of the meninges. Although several factors may be involved, lipopolysaccharide in the walls of gram-negative organisms and techoic acid in the walls of gram-positive microorganisms activate brain microglia, leading to a cascade of inflammatory changes that causes cortical microvascular permeability with diffuse cerebral edema, resulting in increased intracranial pressure. This causes the patient to experience headaches and fevers. Blood-brain barrier breakdown occurs secondary to the infection and inflammatory response. Altered mental status, seizures, and focal neurologic deficits occur due to decreased perfusion and increased intracranial pressure. ## History and Physical Fever, neck stiffness, and altered mental status are the classic triad of symptoms for meningitis; however, all three are only present in 41% of cases of bacterial meningitis. The triad is most commonly seen in elderly patients. Seventy percent of patients will present with at least one of these symptoms. Common early symptoms of the disease include fever, headache, and confusion which can progress to obtundation, focal neuro deficits, and seizures. History should include questioning about any recent neurosurgical procedures, immunization status, and living arrangements. A physical exam may reveal nuchal rigidity or positive Kernig's or Brudzinski's signs. However, the absence of these does not reliably rule out the disease. Brudzinski's sign occurs when passive flexion of the neck causes involuntary flexion of the knee. Kernig's sign is resistance or pain with knee extension when the patient is supine, and their hip is flexed to 90 degrees. These signs are thought to be secondary to meningeal irritation. The fundoscopic exam may reveal papilledema due to increased intracranial pressure. A rapidly spreading petechial rash, known as purpura fulminans, would suggest a Meningococcal infection. ## Evaluation Patients presumed to have bacterial meningitis should receive a lumbar puncture to obtain a