if there is suspicion for sepsis, a thorough physical exam looking for a potential infectious source, including a pelvic exam if indicated. ## Evaluation With the increased emphasis placed on earlier detection of sepsis, several clinical scores have been proposed to help further predict which patients are septic and which patients will ultimately have a worse outcome. SIRS, as defined above, has been criticized for being too general, and while being very sensitive, it is also not very specific. The SIRS criteria were developed as a way of identifying this systemic response based on vital signs and lab work, not the source of infection. However, when comparing even newer clinical tools, such as the qSOFA score (quick sepsis-related organ failure assessment), the SIRS criteria were still more sensitive.[21][22] Ultimately, the difficulty in validating and finding a clinical tool that will detect a septic patient 100% of the time is that there is no gold standard for diagnosing sepsis. To diagnose sepsis in a patient, we still rely on three groups of clinical and laboratory data, namely, general systemic manifestations, manifestations of organ dysfunction/failure, and finally, microbiological documentation. The general systemic manifestations are taken into account with the SIRS criteria. Manifestations of organ failure or dysfunction can be seen in changes of platelets, bilirubin, INR, creatinine, and lactic acid, among many other surrogate markers.[21] Microbiological documentation includes commonly blood cultures; however, they can include urine, peritoneal, synovial, respiratory secretions, and potentially cerebrospinal fluid(CSF). The downside is that in over one-third of clinical cases of sepsis and septic shock, the blood cultures are negative, as well contaminants can complicate the picture.[4] Sepsis-2 Criteria (2001) defined parameters of both physical and laboratory findings present with organ dysfunction, heavily influencing the Surviving Sepsis Campaign and CMS Core Measure (SEP-1). Organ dysfunction, as noted in SEP-1, are as follows: SBP less than 90 mm Hg, MAP less than 65 mm Hg, Acute respiratory failure (need for invasive or non-invasive mechanical ventilation), creatinine greater than 2.0, urine output less than 0.5 ml/kg per hour (for 2 consecutive hours), total bilirubin greater than 2 mg/dl, platelet count fewer than 100,000, INR greater than 1.5, or aPTT greater than 60 seconds, or lactate greater than 2 mmol/L. Evaluation for sepsis as the underlying process should be evaluated with these markers of end-organ dysfunction in mind. With a high index of suspicion for sepsis, investigation typically includes: - Complete