an impaired function of immune cells with the expansion of regulatory T cells and myeloid suppressor cells that further reduce inflammation. Regulation by the neural mechanism involves the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and vagus nerve stimulating the adrenal gland to release norepinephrine and acetylcholine secretion by CD4 T cells which helps to suppress the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines. On the cellular level, there is inhibition of pro-inflammatory gene transcription. The damage inflicted by the inflammatory process is largely due to oxidation, where the production of oxidants overwhelms the body’s endogenous antioxidant defenses. This collateral damage can be the result of inadequate antioxidant protection and is the basis behind newer research geared toward replacing endogenous antioxidants.[4] ## Epidemiology Sepsis is associated with high morbidity and mortality and most recently has been identified as affecting nearly 1.7 million US adults every year. Before 2000, mortality was noted to be as high as 50% in severe sepsis and septic shock patients.[6][10] Even with new technologies and treatments, the mortality remains around 20% to 25% nationwide, with 1 in 3 patients who die in the hospital succumbing to sepsis. Given the reported increasing prevalence of sepsis, a large amount of importance has been placed on treating and recognizing this disease process early, with the most recent budget reported at around $23.7 billion dollars in 2013.[11][12][13] ## Pathophysiology Sepsis progressing to septic shock and multi-organ failure results from a worsening circulatory insufficiency characterized by hypovolemia, myocardial depression, increased metabolic demands, and vasoregulatory perfusion abnormalities. Classically, septic shock and inflammatory shock have been described as primarily systemic vasodilatation of both arteries and veins. This dilation reduces ventricular preload as well as afterload, by decreasing systemic vascular resistance. The typical hemodynamic pattern in septic shock consists of low cardiac filling pressures, low central venous pressures (CVP), and low systemic vascular resistance (SVR). With low preload and afterload, cardiac output (CO) must increase to compensate, typically with increased heart rate (CO = Stroke Volume x Heart Rate). This is also why sepsis is thought of as a distributive shock and is also known as hyper-dynamic or warm shock. The vascular changes resulting in systemic vasodilatation can be attributed in large part to the dysfunction of the vascular endothelium and mitochondria. Part of the inflammatory process can be attributed to the enhanced production of nitric oxide (NO), which is a free radical and is produced in vascular endothelial cells. In addition