of 7 g/dL in septic patients is the current recommendation unless there are signs of critical coronary disease, myocardial ischemia, or acute hemorrhage.[8][32] Corticosteroids have 2 important implications in severe sepsis and septic shock, namely that they have anti-inflammatory activity and that they magnify the vaso-constricting response to catecholamines. The conflicting support for the routine use of steroids in severe sepsis and septic shock has led to inconsistent recommendations for its use, despite more than 50 years of trials looking at its benefit in septic shock. Recently the CORTICUS and ADRENAL trials focusing on this point have failed to show a direct mortality benefit. However, there was a decreased length of ICU stay and days on vasopressors in survivors.[33][34] The APROCCHSS trial, in contrast, looking at a fludrocortisone and hydrocortisone combination, did show a mortality benefit in septic shock patients without an increase in adverse events.[35] Currently, the recommendations support its use in refractory septic shock that has not responded to intravenous fluids and vasopressor therapy as well a low-dose prolonged course should be continued while the patient is on vasopressor therapy. Hydrocortisone is the preferred corticosteroid because of its mineralocorticoid effects. Mechanical ventilation is an important component of management as the respiratory system, predominantly the lungs, is the most commonly affected organ in severe sepsis and septic shock. In the event, the patient experiences acute lung injury that progresses to ARDS requiring mechanical ventilation, a lung-protective strategy is needed. In the landmark ARDSNet trial, patients who were receiving mechanical ventilation and had developed ARDS had lower mortality and decreased ventilator-dependent days with a lung-protective strategy. This strategy employed a lower tidal volume strategy of 6 ml/kg of predicted body weight and kept plateau pressures under 30 cm H2O.[36] Targeted treatments at different intersections in the newer models of sepsis have been continually developed and usually have been unsuccessful at providing any mortality benefit routinely. Drotrecogin alfa, which is recombinant human-activated protein C, was approved by the FDA in 2001 and was thought to promote fibrinolysis and inhibit thrombosis, which would have a significant impact on the pro-inflammatory state and complications involved in sepsis and septic shock. This was not the case, as it was withdrawn from the market after further studies were published showing no benefit and potentially worse outcomes. Further efforts were made to look at the administration of monoclonal antibodies against TNF, blocking IL-1 activity, granulocyte colony-stimulating