EGDT was subsequently incorporated into the first iteration of the 6hr resuscitation bundle of the Surviving Sepsis Campaign guidelines.[7] These guidelines have changed since their first publication, with revisions in 2008, 2012, and finally, 2016.[8] Heightened scrutiny of these guidelines and recommendations was the result of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services(CMS) using bundled care as a hospital quality measure. These were initially adopted by the National Quality Forum 0-500 and subsequently became the Sepsis CMS Core measures known as _SEP-1_. These measures have come under criticism primarily for the assumption that bundled and structured care is superior to individualized treatment guided by the bedside clinician.[9] In addition to the numerous criticisms of the measures or the evidence supporting them, their mortality benefit remains a point of controversy for many clinicians. ## Etiology The inflammatory response that leads to clinical syndromes such as sepsis is triggered by conditions that threaten the functional integrity of the host, in this case, microbial invasion. Both pro-inflammatory responses and anti-inflammatory responses characterize the host response. The extent of this process depends entirely on both pathogen factors (load, virulence, and pathogen-associated molecular pattern) and host factors (environment, genetics, age, other illnesses, and medications). At its onset, the host cell will recognize the pathogen leading to a perpetuation of inflammation starting with leukocyte activation, then complement activation and coagulation activation, ultimately resulting in necrotic cell death. Normally, leukocyte activation, primarily neutrophils, are activated early in the inflammatory response cycle and undergo a respiratory burst, consuming lots of oxygen with the goal of creating toxic metabolites of oxygen. Neutrophils also use their myeloperoxidase enzyme to convert hydrogen peroxide to hypochlorite, a powerful germicidal agent (the active ingredient in bleach). These metabolites are stored in cytoplasmic granules and are released during neutrophil degranulation. This necrotic cell death releases further toxic metabolites, which causes further inflammatory pathway activation and further collateral tissue damage. This cascade can become a self-sustaining process if left unchecked. Pro-inflammatory mechanisms are kept in check by the immune system via the humoral, cellular, and neural mechanisms. Regulation by the humoral mechanism is characterized by an impaired function of immune cells with the expansion of regulatory T cells and myeloid suppressor cells that further reduce inflammation. Regulation by the neural mechanism involves the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and vagus nerve stimulating the adrenal gland to release norepinephrine and acetylcholine secretion by CD4 T cells which helps to