signs are thought to be secondary to meningeal irritation. The fundoscopic exam may reveal papilledema due to increased intracranial pressure. A rapidly spreading petechial rash, known as purpura fulminans, would suggest a Meningococcal infection. ## Evaluation Patients presumed to have bacterial meningitis should receive a lumbar puncture to obtain a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) sample. The CSF should be sent for Gram stain, culture, complete cell count (CBC), and glucose and protein levels. Bacterial meningitis typically results in low glucose and high protein levels in the cerebrospinal fluid. As CSF glucose levels are dependent on circulating serum glucose levels, the CSF to serum glucose ratio is considered more reliable parameter for the diagnosis of acute bacterial meningitis than absolute CSF glucose levels. A neutrophil predominance on cell count would be expected. The diagnosis would be confirmed with bacteria identified on gram stain or culture. A non-contrast CT scan of the head should be performed before lumbar puncture if the patient has a risk of herniation. Risk factors include papilledema on the exam, new onset seizures, focal neurologic deficits, or is immunocompromised. Consider delaying the lumbar puncture if the patient has unstable vital signs, coagulation abnormalities, or has had a recent seizure. Treat with antibiotics empirically if testing is going to be delayed. Blood cultures should be obtained as 53% of patients have concurrent bacteremia. Elevated C-reactive protein or procalcitonin levels would suggest a bacterial rather than viral etiology.[10][11][12] ## Treatment / Management Timely administration of antibiotics is essential. Delays in the administration of 3 to 6 hours are associated with increased mortality. The identified bacteria determine antibiotic selection. Empiric treatment with ceftriaxone and vancomycin should strongly be considered if the diagnosis is going to be delayed. Patients who are immunocompromised or older than 50 should also receive ampicillin. Patients with bacterial meningitis due to head trauma or post-neurosurgical procedure need to be covered for methicillin resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ and aerobic gram-negative organisms. They should receive vancomycin and ceftazidime or cefepime. Acyclovir can also be administered for HSV coverage. Antibiotics can then be narrowed once the culture and sensitivities have resulted. Dexamethasone may increase survival if given at the time of antibiotic administration for _S. pneumoniae_ infections. It has not been shown to improve outcomes for meningitis caused by other bacteria. Patients suspected of having meningococcal meningitis should be placed in droplet precautions until they have received 24 hours of antibiotics. Close