patients often have normal lifespans. Additionally, with tight dietary lipid control, patients have no apparent increased risk for atherosclerosis. Orlistat is a medication that can also improve hyperchylomicronemia by decreasing the risk of pancreatitis; it is a pancreatic lipase inhibitor given before meals.[8] ## Clinical Significance Lipoprotein is clinically significant in cardiac pharmacology, specifically in cholesterol management. Fibrates, such as fenofibrate, bezafibrate, and gemfibrozil, work by activating peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPAR-alpha) and upregulating lipoprotein lipase. Activation of PPAR alpha leads to gene transcription modification. Modified gene transcription leads to increased lipoprotein lipase activity. PPAR-alpha activity also increases the oxidation of fatty acids in the liver, which leads to decreased levels of very low-density lipoprotein. Ultimately, this leads to reduced serum triglyceride levels, as they increase hydrolysis of VLDL and chylomicron triglycerides via lipoprotein lipase. Thus, fibrates are indicated for patients with highly elevated levels of triglycerides. Fibrates decrease serum LDL mildly by reducing VLDL; however, statins are the first-line therapy for lowering LDL. Fibrates induce high-density lipoprotein (HDL) synthesis, mildly increasing serum HDL by activating apolipoprotein A1 and apolipoprotein A2, creating nascent HDLs. Clinically, fibrates are primarily indicated for decreasing blood triglyceride levels, and they are the most effective class of drugs for this function. Side effects of fibrates include cholesterol gallstones, as they increase the cholesterol content of bile. Fibrates may also cause rhabdomyolysis, and the risk of myopathy is higher when combined with statins. Fibrates can also cause increased levels of liver enzymes such as alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT). Fibrates are usually combined with other cholesterol-lowering treatments as they increase low-density lipoproteins (LDL).[9] Clinically, LPL plays a significant role in the progression of atherosclerosis. LPL is a component in atherosclerotic lesions, which derive from macrophages. Furthermore, patients with advanced atherosclerosis were found to have elevated LPL mass and activity in their post-heparin plasma. LPL contributes to atherogenic lipoprotein formation. LPL acts on chylomicrons and VLDL to hydrolyze triglycerides from them and form VLDL remnants and chylomicron remnants. VLDL remnants and chylomicron remnants are composed of a high concentration of cholesterol esters and then get incorporated into macrophages. LPL creates free fatty acids, and macrophages then re-esterify them, accumulating cholesterol esters in macrophages, causing macrophages to transform into foam cells. LPL catalyzed the conversion of VLDL to Intermediate density lipoproteins (IDL), which hepatic lipases then convert to low-density lipoprotein