skeletal muscles, because skeletal LDH has all M-subunits. However, a lack of a functional subunit reduces the amount of enzyme formed in all other tissues as well. This chemistry results in an ineffective breakdown of glycogen. Hence, LDHA gene deficiency is also called glycogen storage disease XI. The unavailability of sufficient energy, especially to the muscle cells, causes muscle weakness and breakdown of muscle tissue (rhabdomyolysis).[38] The effect is more pronounced during strenuous activities, and muscle tissue destruction releases protein myoglobin. This protein is processed in the kidneys and released in the urine, causing myoglobinuria. The high accumulation of myoglobin protein can damage the kidneys, which can also lead to kidney failure. In some patients, LDHA deficiency causes skin rashes of varying severity.[39] On the other hand, LDHB gene mutations affect the heart muscle primarily because the heart LDH is made of all four H-subunits. In cardiac muscle, the involuntary muscle movement is fueled by the conversion of lactate to pyruvate through the LDH enzyme. Such conditions lead to a reduced LDH activity in cardiac muscle of patients with LDHB deficiency. Interestingly, no visible phenotype, signs, or symptoms are observed in such patients. Both LDHA and LDHB gene mutations have shown relevance in tumorigenesis.[40] ## Clinical Significance LDH serves as a general indicator of acute and chronic diseases. Elevation in serum LDH activity follows isoenzyme patterns that are characteristic of various diseases. - LDH increase can serve as a prognostic marker of cancer progression for different types of cancer. LDH also serves as one of the important diagnostic markers of cutaneous lymphoma. The concentration of LDH-5 is demonstrated as a predictor of radiotherapy and chemotherapy response in cancer patients. LDH is useful in evaluating metastatic cancer patients. Contrarily, LDH-5 serves as a marker for radio-sensitization. - The enzymes can function to monitor progressive conditions such as muscular dystrophy or HIV infection. - In sports medicine, LDH potentially indicates muscle response to training, with an increase in skeletal and cardiac muscles after 3-5 hours of training. - If LDH-1 is found to be greater than LDH-2, it indicates myocardial infarction, with a ‘flipped’ ratio of LDH-1/LDH-2 greater than 1. The increase in LDH persists for approximately ten days. It increases at 12 hours and peaks at 24-48 hours. A very high level thus indicates acute myocardial infarction. - Greater than a 50 times increase in LDH-1 and LDH-2 indicates megaloblastic anemia.