protein, hemolysis causes an artifactual increase leading to false-positive high results. Besides, any cellular necrosis can result in increased serum concentration, and its ubiquitous distribution throughout tissues confers a severe handicap to its wider clinical utility as a biomarker. ## Cellular Level LDH is a cytoplasmic enzyme that is present in almost all tissues but at high concentrations in muscle, liver, and kidney. Red blood cells also contain moderate concentrations of this enzyme. LDH exhibits five isomeric forms assembled in tetramers of either of the two types of subunits, namely muscle (M) and heart (H). The isoforms called isozymes are named LDH-1 through LDH-5, each having differential expression in different tissues.[3] This differential expression of LDH is the basis of its importance as a clinical diagnostic marker. Isozyme LDH-1 has four heart subunits (4H) and is the major isozyme present in the heart tissue. Isozyme LDH-2 has three heart and one muscle subunit (3H1M) and is the major isozyme of the reticuloendothelial system and RBCs. The LDH-3 isozyme consists of two heart and two muscle subunits (2H2M) and is the major isozyme of the lungs. Isozyme LDH-4 has one heart and three muscle subunits (1H3M) and is the primary isozyme present in the kidneys. The LDH-5 isozyme has four muscle subunits (4M) and has significant expression in liver and skeletal muscle.[4][5] These five isoforms, although catalyzing the same overall reaction, differ in their affinity to the substrate, inhibition concentration, isoelectric point, and electrophoretic mobility. These five isoforms can be visualized in the active state using LDH zymography. Though LDH is predominantly a cytoplasmic enzyme, its mitochondrial presence is also demonstrated by various studies. The presence of a mitochondrial L-lactate dehydrogenase (mL-LDH) was confirmed in yeast, plant, and animals.[6] L-lactate, which is the substrate for mL-LDH, is transported to the mitochondria through L-lactate/H symporter and the L-lactate/pyruvate and L-lactate/oxaloacetate antiporters. Subsequently, mL-LDH facilitates the oxidation of L-lactate to pyruvate in the mitochondrial matrix.[7] Many cancer cells reprogram the mitochondrial processes to fulfill their higher demands for energy. Glycolysis becomes elevated in cancer cells, and hence, mL-LDH may be a player in accelerating oxidative phosphorylation.[8] ## Molecular Level The genes that encode LDH are _LDHA_ , _LDHB_ , _LDHC,_ and _LDHD_. LDHA, LDHB, and LDHC encode for L-isomers of the enzyme, whereas LDHD encodes the D-isomer. The L-isomers use and produce L-lactate, which is the major enantiomeric form of lactate present in