complete lack of brainstem reflex, you may proceed with apnea testing. Apnea testing should be reserved for last and only once the diagnosis of brain death is reasonably determined since elevating partial pressure carbon dioxide in arterial blood (PaCO2) increases ICP and could precipitate cerebral herniation. Apnea testing is performed using the following procedure as recommended by the AAN. - Vasopressors should be adjusted to maintain a SBP ≥100 mm Hg. - Preoxygenation is given for at least 10 minutes with a 100% FiO2 to a PaO2 >200 mm Hg. - Reduce ventilator frequency to 10 breaths per minute. - Reduce positive end-expiratory pressure to 5 cm H2O. - If the SpO2 remains >95%, obtain baseline blood gas. - Disconnect the patient from the ventilator and preserve oxygenation with oxygen delivered through insufflation tubing given at 100% FiO2 at 6 L per minute near the level of the carina through the endotracheal tube. - Look for respiratory movements for 8 to 10 minutes. - Repeat blood gas at approximately 8 minutes if no respiratory drive is observed. - If no respiratory movements are observed, and PaCO2 >60 mm Hg or 20 mm Hg increase in PaCO2 over baseline (such as in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), the apnea test result is positive. If the above list is completed, and coma, the absence of brainstem reflexes, and a positive apnea test are present, the diagnosis of brain death can be made. This procedure is validated and supported by several professional organizations. The apnea test has to be aborted if: - Any respiratory movement (abdominal or chest excursions or brief gasp) exists. - SBP decreases to \<90 mm Hg. - Oxygen saturation is less than 85% for more than 30 seconds. If so, the procedure has to be retried with a T-piece, maintaining a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) of 10 cm H2O and administration of 100% oxygen at 12 L/min. Although not required for the diagnosis of brain death, hospitals frequently have additional ancillary tests available to confirm the diagnosis of brain death. Ancillary tests are used when apnea testing is inconclusive or patients are too unstable to proceed with apnea testing.[16][3] These tests include: - Cerebral angiography: Four-vessel angiography is the gold standard for cerebral blood flow evaluation. Angiography can confirm brain death when it shows a cessation of blood flow to the brain. Cerebral angiography's limitations include the test's invasiveness