care and prevents the unnecessary expenditure of resources. An essential topic that evolved in parallel with brain death is obtaining organs for transplantation. According to the "dead donor rule," organ procurement can occur only after death has been declared. Therefore, for patients who are brain dead, the procurement of viable organs is allowed, even if a patient still has some circulatory and pulmonary function. This concept continues to result in some ongoing debate and controversy.[5][6] Differentiating brain death from other forms of severe brain damage, including vegetative state and minimally responsive state, is crucial.[7] In a vegetative state and minimally responsive state, some brain functions are maintained, resulting in a chance of recovery, even occasionally after prolonged periods, especially in patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI). ## Etiology Brain death occurs as a result of an acute catastrophic brain injury. Abrupt loss of cerebral perfusion occurs if a concomitant elevation of intracranial pressure exceeds the mean arterial pressure. The formula is as follows: cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) = mean arterial pressure (MAP) - intracranial pressure (ICP). This process was studied by monitoring brain tissue oxygenation in patients with brain death and can occur via 2 different mechanisms: - Intracranial causes: In adults, the predominant intracranial injuries leading to brain death are traumatic brain injuries (TBI) and subarachnoid hemorrhage. These injuries elevate intracranial pressure (ICP), impair cerebral perfusion, and reduce brain tissue oxygenation, leading to neuronal damage. In pediatric cases, nonaccidental trauma is a common cause, contributing to increased ICP and subsequent brain injury.[8][9] - Extracranial causes: In both adults and children, a significant extracranial cause of brain death is cardiopulmonary arrest with delayed or inadequate resuscitation.[10] This leads to prolonged cessation of cerebral blood flow, resulting in anoxia, cellular membrane pump failure, disturbed osmoregulation, and severe brain edema. The increased ICP within the confined space of the skull further compromises cerebral perfusion, exacerbating neuronal injury. ## Epidemiology The most common processes leading to brain death, in order of frequency, are cardiopulmonary arrest, TBI, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and intracerebral hemorrhage. Among extracranial causes, patients who experience cardiopulmonary arrest show a progression to brain death in 8.9% of cases post-resuscitation. For those presenting with TBI, the rate of progression to brain death ranges from 2.8% to 6.1%. Regarding intracranial etiologies, patients with a subarachnoid hemorrhage progress to brain death in 8.5% to 10.7% of cases, while those with intracerebral hemorrhage progress at a