or patients are too unstable to proceed with apnea testing.[16][3] These tests include: - Cerebral angiography: Four-vessel angiography is the gold standard for cerebral blood flow evaluation. Angiography can confirm brain death when it shows a cessation of blood flow to the brain. Cerebral angiography's limitations include the test's invasiveness and transferring the patient to the radiology suite. Also, the contrast may induce nephrotoxicity, affecting the donor's kidney. False-negative tests can occur when ICP becomes lowered by surgery, trauma, or ventricular shunts. - Transcranial ultrasound (US): US can be used to assess bilateral pulsations of the middle cerebral, vertebral, basilar, anterior cerebral, or ophthalmic arteries. The transcranial US can confirm brain death by showing small peaked systolic pulsations or the absence of diastolic pulsations. Test limitations include the examiner's expertise, unsuitable windows due to thick temporal bones, and lowered ICP by surgery or ventricular shunts giving false-negative tests. - Computed tomography and magnetic resonance angiography of the brain may be used to show cessation of cerebral blood flow. - Radionuclide brain imaging: This can be done using a 99mTc-labeled hexamethyl propylene amine oxime (HMPAO) isotope tracer and then imaging by single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) brain scintigraphy. The absence of a tracer in cerebral circulation (the hollow skull phenomenon) is consistent with brain death. The test may show false-positive results if imaging is done in one plane only instead of two planes (anterior and lateral).[17] - Somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEPs): Patients with brain death show no somatosensory evoked potentials in response to bilateral median nerve stimulation and no brain stem evoked potentials in response to auditory stimuli.[16] SSEPs can confirm EEG findings, as it is less affected by drug intoxication; however, they can still be affected by hypothermia.[20][21] ## Treatment / Management Once brain death has been diagnosed, the patient is clinically and legally declared deceased at the time of completion of brain death testing. At this time, depending on family and patient preference, cardiopulmonary support should be withdrawn, or arrangements for organ harvest should commence. Adequate documentation of all criteria of the diagnosis of brain death must be included in the patient's medical record. It is recommended that some form of checklist be used to ensure the completeness of brain death testing.[10] ## Differential Diagnosis Several conditions may mimic brain death, including those listed below. - Vegetative state - Minimally responsive state - Locked-in syndrome[22] - Hypothermia - Drug