for a patient to be diagnosed as brain dead: - CN II and III (pupillary light reflex): Pupils should be fixed, mid-size/dilated (4-9 mm), and not reactive to light. A magnifying glass or pupillometer can be used to evaluate further if the results are equivocal.[16] - CN III, VI, VIII (oculovestibular reflex): The oculovestibular reflex can be tested using the oculocephalic reflex or caloric testing. When the oculocephalic reflex is absent, the eyes will turn in the same direction in which the head is turning (Doll's eyes). Testing for the oculocephalic reflex should only be performed in a patient with a stable cervical spine. Cold caloric testing may be performed by irrigation of one ear with 50 to 60 mL of ice water. An absent oculovestibular reflex is indicated by a lack of movement of the eyes towards the irrigated side within 1 minute. The contralateral ear should be tested after 5 minutes.[17] - CN V and VII (corneal reflex): Loss of corneal reflex is determined by using a cotton swab or drops of water/normal saline.[18] - CN IX (gag reflex): Loss of gag reflex is confirmed after stimulation of bilateral posterior pharyngeal membranes without elevation of the palate. - CN X (cough reflex): Loss of cough reflex is confirmed after tracheal suctioning without reaction.[19] ## Evaluation Before deciding to proceed with the diagnosis of brain death, several conditions must be evaluated and met: - Evidence of an etiology of coma should be known. Confounding conditions should be excluded, including severe metabolic, endocrinologic, and acid-base derangements.[16][17] - If a drug intoxication is suspected or if recent neuromuscular blocking agents have been administered, then five half-lives of drug clearance should be waited, with adjustment to renal and hepatic functions. - The core temperature must be >36 °C. - Systolic blood pressure (SBP) >100 mm Hg. Vasopressors may be administered if necessary. - Neurologic examination (ie, brainstem reflexes): in most states in the United States, 1 attending physician examination is sufficient; however, some states require 2 physicians. If the above conditions are present and there is an identified cause of coma and complete lack of brainstem reflex, you may proceed with apnea testing. Apnea testing should be reserved for last and only once the diagnosis of brain death is reasonably determined since elevating partial pressure carbon dioxide in arterial blood (PaCO2) increases ICP and could precipitate cerebral herniation. Apnea testing is performed