Preparation Informed consent should be obtained from the patient or the patient’s health care power of attorney. A focused history and physical examination should be obtained to ensure the procedure is clinically indicated and to evaluate for potential contraindications. The patient should fast (nothing by mouth) for six to eight hours before the procedure. Hemodynamic monitoring, pulse oximetry, and intravenous access should be assured before the start of the procedure. Patient’s medication list and allergies, and laboratory results should always be checked. An ECG may be performed if clinically indicated. A ‘time out’ is performed at the start of the procedure. Although bronchoscopy can be done without sedation, most procedures are done under moderate conscious sedation with the use of various sedatives based on the clinician’s preference (e.g., benzodiazepines, opioids, dexmedetomidine). Certain procedures may require more deep sedation or general anesthesia. Regardless of the sedation or anesthesia used the physicians should be aware of the potential side effects and how to manage patients receiving these medications. ## Technique or Treatment The bronchoscope may be introduced into the nasal cavity or the mouth (or through an endotracheal tube or laryngeal mask airway) and advanced to the level of the vocal cords. Assessment of the appearance and movement of the cords is done. As the bronchoscope is advanced beyond the vocal cords, a careful inspection of the entire airway is performed. In particular, abnormal endobronchial lesions or mucosal abnormalities, as well as any evidence of narrowing or dynamic collapse, is assessed. Pictures or videos can be recorded for future reference. Effort should be made to avoid unnecessary contact with the mucosa to avoid trauma. Based on the indication of the procedure, appropriate tools are selected to accomplish specific tasks such as tissue sampling or tumor debulking. At the conclusion of the procedure, a final assessment of the airway should be performed ensure adequate hemostasis. A post-procedural chest x-ray may be needed to evaluate for the presence of a pneumothorax. All patients should be monitored before, during and after the procedure. After uneventful recovery and in the absence of complications the patient may be discharged on the same day. Appropriate follow up is scheduled, and the patient is advised not to drive, operate heavy machinery for the rest of the day, or participate in any activity that requires full consciousness as the effect of the medications may last many hours. ## Complications **Medication-related