can be utilized intraoperatively to remove casts and improve airway pressures and oxygenation. Widespread cast formation in airways redistributes tidal volumes to unobstructed airways resulting in excessive pulmonary pressures to healthy lung tissue, propagating barotrauma. - This barotrauma can result in acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and pneumothorax. ARDS occurs within a week of inciting events and cannot be explained by congestive heart failure or hypervolemia. ARDS can be further classified as PaO2/FiO2 ratios; mild ARDS (200-300 PaO2/FiO2), moderate ARDS (100-200 PaO2/FiO2), and severe ARDS (\<100 PaO2/FiO2). The primary means of diagnosis of the subglottic injury is clinical but can be supplemented by bronchoscopy. Subglottic inhalation injuries become significant to anesthesiologists due to the necessity of lung-protective ventilation strategies such as low tidal volume (4-6 mL/kg) and properly titrated positive end-expiratory pressures to limit barotrauma.[1][6][7] 1. Systemic - Inhalation injuries can have systemic effects, causing hypoxia, acidosis, and systemic inflammation, resulting in pulmonary edema. Tissues can be directly damaged by carbon monoxide and cyanide, which are soluble in blood and can inhibit oxygenation. Intraoperative checks can be performed to monitor these systemic effects through arterial blood gas and laboratory studies when necessary. - Carbon monoxide can hinder hemoglobin's ability to carry oxygen and has a higher affinity for hemoglobin than oxygen. Toxicity is considered when carboxyhemoglobin levels exceed 15%. When nitrogenous materials burn, they produce cyanide which interacts with the cytochrome system of mitochondria, inhibiting oxygen utilization. This can block the last step of oxidative phosphorylation, preventing the conversion of pyruvate to adenosine triphosphate (ATP), resulting in cells generating ATP from anaerobic metabolism. - Cyanide toxicity is characterized by an anion gap metabolic acidosis in the presence of ample oxygen delivery. If an intraoperative patient experiences persistent hypoxia and acidosis, it may be due to carbon monoxide or cyanide toxicity. **Carbon Monoxide Poisoning** Pulse oximetry may not accurately measure oxygenation levels in cases of carbon monoxide poisoning. This is because pulse oximetry cannot differentiate between oxyhemoglobin and carboxyhemoglobin. To determine the severity of carbon monoxide poisoning, laboratory tests can measure the levels of carboxyhemoglobin present in the blood. In cases where time is crucial, one can consider using a carbon monoxide oximeter. Unfortunately, such devices are not commonly found in modern hospitals. Carbon monoxide has a higher affinity for hemoglobin than oxygen (about 230 to 270 times higher), leading to a shift in the oxygen-hemoglobin dissociation curve towards the left.