related to injury to the supraglottic region is upper airway edema which can obstruct the airway and create difficulties with intubation. Exposure to direct heat and steam may result in swelling of various structures (ie, face, tongue, epiglottis, glottis), making mask ventilation and visualization of the glottis more difficult. As the burn shock phase progresses, this problem may be compounded. - Supraglottic inhalation injuries can be assessed by physical examination and using tools such as fiberoptic bronchoscopy to directly examine the oropharynx and vocal cords for edema. Those with upper airway edema exhibiting mental status changes, stridor, hoarseness, or mucosal edema should be treated with early intubation to prevent further airway complications and impending respiratory arrest. The subglottic structures are generally protected from thermal injuries due to the glottis' innate nature to close and the upper airway's ability to dissipate heat. Supraglottic swelling typically resolves in 3 to 6 days. - The ideal anesthetic approach for patients with significant supraglottic injuries is to maximize local anesthetic usage and minimize general anesthetics with a fiberoptic approach. This allows ample time to investigate and then navigate a difficult airway while maintaining spontaneous patient respiration, thus reducing the risk of patient harm and manipulation of the airway.[1][6] 1. Subglottic - Inhalation of noxious chemicals and irritants often causes injury below the glottis. This can lead to direct damage and inflammation, resulting in airway mucosal hyperemia, potential bronchospasm, and mucosal sloughing. Consequently, mucociliary escalator function may be inhibited, leading to a buildup of bacteria and mucosal debris, increasing the risk of pneumonia in the days following the injury. Inflammatory processes can also inhibit hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction, leading to right-to-left shunting of blood and hypoxia. Alveolar collapse may occur due to a loss of surfactant production or plugging by debris. Intermittent bronchospasm and airway edema may further limit oxygenation by inhibiting oxygen delivery to the alveoli. These findings may be evident in a patient on a ventilator with a prolonged expiratory phase and elevated peak inspiratory pressures. - Cast formation due to mucus sloughing can also obstruct the already limited space in the airways. Bronchoscopy can be utilized intraoperatively to remove casts and improve airway pressures and oxygenation. Widespread cast formation in airways redistributes tidal volumes to unobstructed airways resulting in excessive pulmonary pressures to healthy lung tissue, propagating barotrauma. - This barotrauma can result in acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and pneumothorax. ARDS occurs