excessive fluid resuscitation is given during the burn shock phase, the consequences of such actions would be observed during the hypermetabolic phase as fluid is resorbed, potentially making weaning from the ventilator intraoperatively troublesome. The release of catabolic hormones and insulin resistance generally characterizes the hypermetabolic phase. This results in protein catabolism (ie, muscle wasting) and hyperglycemia. Glucocorticoid and inflammatory cytokines increase during this phase, thus increasing the caloric needs of a severely burned patient. The hypermetabolic phase can last up to 2 years.[1][2][4] Once the burn has reached a total body surface area (TBSA) of approximately 25% to 30%, the inflammatory response produces systemic effects altering the physiology of a burn patient.[1][5] The initial pathophysiologic alterations/complications during the burn shock (ebb phase) can be summarized by the organ system as follows:[1][5] - Cardiovascular - Increased capillary membrane permeability (loss of intravascular proteins to the interstitial compartment) - Vasoconstriction (increased systemic vascular resistance) - Decreased myocardial contractility (decreased cardiac index, stroke volume, and blood pressure) - Metabolic acidosis (decreased kidney perfusion) - Overall result: systemic hypotension with reduced end-organ perfusion - Pulmonary - Pulmonary edema - Increased susceptibility to bronchospasm due to bronchorrhea - Overall result: Potential adult respiratory distress syndrome development - Integumentary - Fluid loss through compromised skin - Generalized edema when BSA of burn exceeds 25% - Circumferential burn of the chest/abdomen/limb may result in compartment syndrome. - Impaired ability to regulate temperature - Overall result: Need for aggressive fluid resuscitation and special attention to circumferential burns - Immunologic - Downregulated immune response - Overall result: Increased susceptibility to infection ## Indications **Inhalation Injuries** Inhalation injuries accompanying burns are associated with a significant increase in morbidity and mortality. Patients with serious burns and inhalation injuries require 30% to 50% more fluid resuscitation than their non-inhalation injury counterparts. Chest radiographs may appear benign until complications such as infection or atelectasis develop. Inhalation injuries may take several days to become clinically evident.[1] Inhalation injuries can be divided into 3 subclassifications: 1. Supraglottic - Thermal injury is the most common inhalation injury to the supraglottic region. The main anesthetic concern related to injury to the supraglottic region is upper airway edema which can obstruct the airway and create difficulties with intubation. Exposure to direct heat and steam may result in swelling of various structures (ie, face, tongue, epiglottis, glottis), making mask ventilation and visualization of the glottis more difficult. As