and distantly from the injury. This response can be described in 2 distinct phases: burn shock (ebb) followed by a hypermetabolic (flow) phase. The inflammatory response begins minutes after tissue destruction resulting in sensitization and irritation of the pain fibers.[1][3] The burn shock or ebb phase occurs during the first 24 to 48 hours of a severe (or major) burn; a severe burn is defined as a collection of second- and third-degree burns comprising equal to or greater than 20% total body surface area (TBSA). Burn shock is characterized by reduced end-organ perfusion and diminished cardiac output, mainly due to losses in intravascular volume. Essentially, this is a distributive shock state. Intravascular volume losses form edema at directly burned areas and unburned sites. Hemoconcentration of red blood cells occurs due to significant volume extravasation into adjacent tissue. This edematous state can obscure views of the glottic opening during direct laryngoscopy. Reduction in cardiac output is a complication of intravascular volume loss, direct myocardial depression, and increased systemic vascular resistance. During this phase, there is an increase in systemic vascular resistance caused by a surge of catecholamines and antidiuretic hormone. This leads to the constriction of blood vessels and a reduction in blood flow. Even with aggressive fluid resuscitation, only partial compensation can be obtained due to an imbalance of the cellular transmembrane ionic gradient and reduced sodium ATPase activity, which may persist for days after the initial burn injury.[1][2][4] The hypermetabolic or flow phase of a severe burn develops 48 to 72 hours after the initial injury and is characterized by increased oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production. Cardiac output improves compared to the burn shock phase resulting in better end-organ perfusion. Cardiac output may increase to 2 to 3 times the normal range due to tachycardia and decreased systemic vascular resistance during this phase, further mimicking sepsis. As a result of decreased vascular resistance, blood flow subsequently improves to all organs. Arteriovenous shunting may occur, resulting in increased venous oxygen saturation. Resorption of edema may result in pulmonary edema, further compounding the damage from inhalation injuries from smoke. If excessive fluid resuscitation is given during the burn shock phase, the consequences of such actions would be observed during the hypermetabolic phase as fluid is resorbed, potentially making weaning from the ventilator intraoperatively troublesome. The release of catabolic hormones and insulin resistance generally characterizes the hypermetabolic phase. This results in