Team Outcomes Approximately 500,000 people present to the emergency department each year with a burn, but most of these patients do not require critical care.[1] When critical care is required, minutes count as a difficult airway can quickly advance to a "can't ventilate, can't intubate" situation with the swelling that occurs during the hours after a severe burn injury. The anesthesiologist can play an important role in managing these cases with their vast knowledge of physiology, pharmacology, airway management skills, and critical care skills. However, it is only through effective communication and coordination among all patient's interprofessional care team members that the patient can have the best chance at a favorable outcome. Severely burned patients are a complex population that requires a multidisciplinary approach to their medical care. This population of patients can have multifaceted problems, including complicated airways, smoke inhalation injuries, and a unique approach to hemodynamic optimization considering the pathophysiology of burns. Optimizing the care of this complex population may require interdisciplinary collaboration and a myriad of services. A retrospective study involving a Difficult Airway Response Team (DART) composed of anesthesiologists, otolaryngologists, and trauma surgeons as a multidisciplinary approach to difficult airways found that a team-based approach was able to secure the airway more often without the need for an emergency cricothyrotomy in a statistically significant manner.[21] Applying a multidisciplinary approach to a burn patient with a difficult airway can lead to a safer and less harmful method of securing the airway. The Parkland Formula is a valuable tool for estimating the necessary amount of fluid resuscitation for a burn patient. However, relying solely on this number for calculating the administration of isotonic fluid can be prone to human errors. Accidentally forgetting to include fluid volumes from intravenous medications is a common issue. Burn patients must receive the correct amount of fluid resuscitation as too little fluid is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Too much fluid is associated with fluid creep, which can lead to higher rates of infection and intubation.[1][2] A retrospective review of burn patients found that patients actually receive much higher volumes of fluid than estimated by the Parkland Formula to properly fluid resuscitate a burn patient.[22] Effective team communication can help prevent fluid creep and its associated issues. Nursing staff plays a crucial role in ensuring accurate intake and output recording and can provide essential feedback to physicians and advanced practice clinicians when