successfully extubated, a tracheostomy can be placed to maintain a patent airway. To gain nutrition, a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube is commonly placed. Patients who require a tracheostomy and PEG tube placement will usually have a prolonged recovery time. These individuals are placed in long-term acute care (LTAC) facilities for care and rehabilitation. Patients who are successfully extubated will still endure a prolonged recovery; however, they are usually more functional. ## Consultations If a cardiac arrest is due to traumatic etiology, trauma surgery is usually consulted to aid with resuscitation, including resuscitative thoracotomy. If ROSC is obtained after a medical cardiac arrest, the emergency room physician will call upon the intensive care team to take care of the patient. If the medical cardiac arrest is deemed secondary to a primary cardiac etiology, cardiology should be consulted to see what intervention is appropriate. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Most cardiac arrests occur in an out-of-hospital setting. Since immediate CPR and utilization of the AED are the 2 main interventions shown to aid in patient outcome,[19][20] one can see why training laypersons with adequate CPR skills can be life-saving. Despite training, there continues to be a hesitancy to initiate lay rescuer CPR.[21] This could be due to a lack of cardiac arrest recognition, lack of encouragement, or lack of confidence. The patient may also be unreachable or unmovable by the lay rescuer, hindering from optimal performance. ## Pearls and Other Issues In hopes to potentially delay cardiac arrest within the general population, one can undergo risk stratification to identify those who may benefit from certain interventions, including a stress test and screening ECG. Clinicians should educate the patient about the benefits of Daily exercise,[22] a healthy diet, effective treatment of hypercholesterolemia, effective treatment of hypertension, effective treatment of diabetes and smoking cessation[23] Patients with post-myocardial infarction and who have diagnosed congestive heart failure can benefit from medication specific medication adjustment, including the addition of beta blockers and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Select patients can also benefit from ICD implantation. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes The majority of patients who have cardiac arrest have underlying coronary artery disease. Alteration of modifiable risk factors and medication adjustment can delay the onset of coronary heart disease, potentially delaying cardiac arrest. Despite the many treatments available for cardiac arrest, the majority of patients have a poor prognosis. However, many lives can still be saved with the