be identified. - Cardiac ultrasound may offer guidance/feedback to medical providers delivering chest compressions regarding the quality of compressions. Transesophageal echocardiography is preferred for this indication as it can better visualize the heart during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) to see if the ventricles are adequately compressed.[12] ## Contraindications Parasternal cardiac ultrasound should not be done during CPR, but other views are appropriate if feasible. Parasternal views can occur during the pulse check, and towels should be nearby to clean off the gel immediately before CPR resumes. Care should be taken not to scan over a wound or incision to avoid contamination and infection.[13] ## Equipment Cardiac ultrasound should be performed with a low-frequency probe that has a small footprint that can fit between the ribs (a phased array is ideal), using a cardiac setting. Ultrasound is defined as a frequency greater than 20,000 Hertz (Hz). ## Personnel A trained provider can perform a cardiac ultrasound.[14] Upon residency graduation, Emergency physicians are required to correctly perform and interpret a minimum of 25 to 50 cardiac ultrasound exams. Many nurse practitioners and physician assistants are also skilled in this examination. ## Preparation The patient should be lying supine on a stretcher with the head of the bed approximately 30 degrees upright. For males, the chest should be completely exposed. For females, the hospital gown can be gathered at the breast level, and towels can be tucked around the gown edges to keep it dry from the ultrasound gel. Alternatively, a towel can be draped over this area if the patient is not wearing a gown. For dominant right-hand operators, the ultrasound machine should be positioned at the patient’s anatomic right, plugged in (if applicable), and turned on. The lights should be dimmed if possible. ## Technique or Treatment There are historically two conventions used when performing a cardiac ultrasound.[15][1] The first was established by cardiologists in the 1960s, where the operator stands at the patient’s anatomic left, the indicator on the probe is directed either to the patient’s anatomic left or anatomic right, depending on the view, and the indicator on the screen is on the right side. When emergency physicians adopted ultrasound, it was for multiple applications from head to toe and included procedural guidance. Having a convention where the indicator on the screen is always to the left side, and the indicator on the probe is to the operator’s left (and