ventricular contractions, supraventricular tachycardias, atrioventricular blocks, bundle branch blocks, QT prolongation, non-specific ST and T wave changes and abnormal Q waves. Chest X-Ray: Enlarged cardiac silhouette, pulmonary vascular congestion, and pleural effusion Alcoholic cardiomyopathy can be diagnosed by the following criteria - Dilated cardiomyopathy is seen on 2D echocardiography - LV end-diastolic dimension greater than 2 standard deviations above normal.Left ventricle ejection fraction less than 50%.Exclusion of hypertensive, valvular and ischemic heart diseases. Hence patients with suspected alcoholic cardiomyopathy should undergo coronary angiogram along with echocardiography. ## Treatment / Management Treatment for alcoholic cardiomyopathy is directed towards source control. The mainstay for treatment is complete abstinence from alcohol. Management should include providing patient resources and counseling. Symptomatic management for patients with secondary heart failure and manage associated complications is warranted. Some studies have suggested that even moderation of alcohol consumption similar outcomes as compared to abstinence. Pharmacologic therapy should include goal-directed heart failure therapy as used in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy with reduced ejection fraction. This includes a combination of beta-blockers, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, diuretics, aldosterone receptor antagonist and angiotensin blocker-neprilysin inhibitor (if LVEF is less than or equal to 40%). The use of carvedilol, trimetazidine with other conventional heart failure drugs have been proven to be beneficial in some studies. Some promising new treatments are targeting the pathways that are involved in the pathogenesis of ACM such as myocyte hypertrophy, cell necrosis and fibrosis, and oxidative stress; however, these are still under investigation.[16][17] ## Differential Diagnosis - Constrictive cardiomyopathy - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - Idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy - Cirrhotic cardiomyopathy - Takatsubo cardiomyopathy - Drug-induced cardiomyopathy - Beriberi ## Prognosis Long-term survival is directly associated with both the amount of alcohol use and the duration of this usage. Alcohol-induced dilated cardiomyopathy has a better prognosis than ischemia-induced cardiomyopathy. Atrial fibrillation, QRS widening of > 120 ms and absence of beta-blockers are associated with poor outcomes. Patients who continue to drink have a poor prognosis. Data suggests patients with successful quitting of alcohol have improved overall outcomes with a reduced number of inpatient admissions and improvement in diameter size on echocardiogram. Complications for those who continue to drink alcohol may include progressive heart failure, arrhythmias, and cardioembolic phenomenon. Data reveal that depending on the alcohol consumed, mortality rates of 40-80% are seen within 10 years. [5][18] ## Complications - Heart failure - Cachexia - Arrhythmias - Cardioembolism - Death ## Enhancing