the patient’s right shoulder. In this view, the footprint of the probe is aligned with the long axis of the patient’s heart. The chamber closest to the footprint at the top of the screen (anterior aspect of the patient) is the right ventricle. The additional chambers include the left atrium, left ventricle, and aortic outflow tract. Posterior to the left atrium and left ventricle at the bottom of the screen is a cross-section of the descending thoracic aorta. This view helps confirm the presence of a pericardial effusion, evaluating the aortic outflow tract and assessing the left ventricle function. In this view, a circumferential pericardial effusion should track anterior to the descending thoracic aorta (whereas a left pleural effusion will track posterior to the descending thoracic aorta). A dilated aortic outflow tract greater than 4 cm measured from leading edge to leading edge, especially in pericardial effusion, may indicate a type A aortic dissection in the appropriate clinical context. The left ventricular function can be assessed by how well the left ventricle myocardium comes together, where a fractional shortening [(left ventricle end-diastolic diameter – left ventricle end-systolic diameter)/left ventricle end-diastolic diameter] of about 30% to 45% correlates with a good squeeze. An indirect way to assess left ventricle function is via the E-point septal separation (EPSS), the smallest distance between the anterior leaflet of the mitral valve and the interventricular septum during early diastole. The EPSS should be less than 7 mm, and a distance of 7 mm or greater indicates depressed left ventricular function. Diastolic dysfunction may falsely lower this distance, and mitral valve dysfunction may falsely increase this distance.[16] **Parasternal Short Axis** The phased array probe is rotated 90 degrees counterclockwise from the parasternal long axis position so that the indicator is pointing towards the right hip. Otherwise, the probe's position is unchanged (still approximately the 4 intercostal space, just lateral to the sternum, with the probe's handle at a perpendicular angle to the chest). The footprint of the probe is aligned with the short axis of the patient’s heart in this view, where most of the screen displays the circular left ventricle, and anteriorly (top left of the screen) is the right ventricle, which should appear as a crescent shape. This view is ideal for assessing the left ventricle function. Still, it can also confirm the presence of pericardial effusion or signs of right heart strain, such