causing cardiomyopathy. Commonly seen cellular structural alterations include changes in the mitochondrial reticulum, cluster formation of mitochondria and disappearance of inter-mitochondrial junctions. In later stages, minor mitochondria and septic mitochondria can be seen. Enzymatic activity changes which are seen in the idiopathic cardiomyopathy including decreased activity of oxygen reduction mitochondrial enzymes, increased fatty acid uptake and increased lysosomal/microsomal enzyme activity can be seen. ## History and Physical Alcoholic cardiomyopathy can present with signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure. Patients may present with dilated cardiomyopathy with systolic dysfunction. Symptoms include gradual onset worsening shortness of breath, orthopnea/paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. Palpitations and syncopal episodes can occur due to tachyarrhythmias seen in alcoholic cardiomyopathy. Diastolic dysfunction is the earliest sign of ACM and is usually seen in approximately 30% of patients with a history of chronic alcohol abuse with no evidence of systolic dysfunction nor left ventricle hypertrophy. The most important factor includes a significant history of chronic alcohol use On physical examination, patients present with non-specific signs of congestive heart failure such as anorexia, generalized cachexia, muscular atrophy, weakness, peripheral edema, third spacing, hepatomegaly, and jugular venous distention. ACM can also cause tachyarrhythmia (most common is atrial fibrillation). Apical impulse can be displaced causing a down and out apex. S3 gallop sound along with apical pansystolic murmur due to mitral regurgitation is often heard. Other etiologies associated with chronic alcohol use may be associated with it and patients may also show signs of liver disease, folate deficiency, increase the risk for bleeding, malnutrition, peripheral neuropathy, and neurological conditions such as Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome. ## Evaluation The diagnosis of alcoholic cardiomyopathy is non-specific. The key to diagnosis is a personal history of chronic heavy alcohol use and the absence of other etiologies. In patients exhibiting chronic alcohol use, other causes of dilated cardiomyopathy need workup. Investigative work up such as mean corpuscular volume (MCV), gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase (GGT), elevated transaminases (AST, ALT) and elevated INR usually are seen in liver injury can be helpful as supportive evidence of alcohol use.[14][15]. Other supportive workups can include: Electrocardiography: Many changes can be observed including premature atrial or ventricular contractions, supraventricular tachycardias, atrioventricular blocks, bundle branch blocks, QT prolongation, non-specific ST and T wave changes and abnormal Q waves. Chest X-Ray: Enlarged cardiac silhouette, pulmonary vascular congestion, and pleural effusion Alcoholic cardiomyopathy can be diagnosed by the following criteria - Dilated cardiomyopathy is seen on 2D echocardiography -