displays the circular left ventricle, and anteriorly (top left of the screen) is the right ventricle, which should appear as a crescent shape. This view is ideal for assessing the left ventricle function. Still, it can also confirm the presence of pericardial effusion or signs of right heart strain, such as paradoxical septal motion and right ventricle enlargement. The overall function of the left ventricle is best assessed concentrically at the level of the papillary muscles. In this view, the operator can also look for wall motion abnormalities and correlate them with the echocardiogram. The left ventricle walls in a parasternal short axis are septal, anterior, lateral, posterior, and inferior, in clockwise order. **Apical 4-Chamber** The phased array probe is positioned at the apex of the heart, usually at approximately 5 O’clock on a male patient’s left nipple or laterally beneath the left breast at the apex of the heart on a female. Palpating the pulse of maximal impulse (PMI) and placing the probe there usually result in a perfect apical four-chamber view. Similar to the subxiphoid view, the footprint of the probe should be directed up towards the patient’s heart (handle of the probe parallel with the patient’s skin), but in this view, the footprint is facing the right shoulder, and the indicator is pointing towards the right superior iliac crest. In this view, the ventricles are closest to the probe at the top of the screen, the atria are furthest away from the probe at the bottom of the screen, with the right ventricle and atrium on the left of the screen and the left ventricle and atrium on the right of the screen. This view is ideal for comparison of the right and left ventricles to look for evidence of right heart strain and confirm the presence of pericardial effusion. The normal right ventricle to left ventricle ratio is 0.6 to 1. Still, to keep the assessment of the right ventricle specific for right heart strain as well as rapid and easy to perform, the binary assessment is whether the right ventricle is smaller than the left ventricle (no significant right heart strain) or if it is as big or bigger than the left ventricle (evidence of right heart strain). This is particularly helpful in acute onset chest pain or shortness of breath when a pulmonary embolism is in the differential diagnosis.[17] A patient with no significant