treatment of valvular heart disease - Assessment pericardial and myocardial diseases - Assessment of the congenital heart diseases - Evaluation of heart failure ## Contraindications There are no absolute definitive contraindications for cardiac catheterization procedures. Most of the contraindications are relative depending on the indication for the procedure and the associated comorbidities of the patient. When the risk of complications is expected to be more than what is considered acceptable for the procedure, alternative modes of imaging and assessment can be used to answer the clinical question. Experienced operators will modify the technique of the procedure in a way as to get the best possible outcomes for the patient with the least amount of risk. Before planning for this procedure, the clinician should clearly understand the clinical question that needs to be answered. ## Personnel A cardiac catheterization procedure is usually performed in a cardiac catheterization laboratory with the help of fluoroscopy to guide and position the catheters in the appropriate position. Along with the experienced operator, support from registered nurses and radiologic technologists is needed for safely performing the procedure. Most of the procedures can be performed with minimal or moderate sedation with the help of a local anesthetic, but some procedures will require anesthesia services for providing deep sedation or general anesthesia. Some of these procedures can be performed at the bedside in a coronary care unit, and the common ones performed bedside include right heart catheterization and temporary pacer wire insertion. ## Preparation Preparation for the cardiac catheterization procedure starts with a thorough history of the patient along with a detailed examination. After defining the clinical question, the performing interventional cardiologist will decide on the access for the procedure. These procedures may need either arterial or venous access or both. Physical examination should specifically focus on assessing the suitability of the patient for the planned procedure. Special attention has to be paid to reviewing drug allergies of the patient and routine lab work. Basic workup includes a complete blood count (CBC), basic metabolic panel (BMP), prothrombin time, electrocardiogram, and chest X-ray. Patients with documented allergy to radio-iodinated contrast material will need premedication with corticosteroids and antihistamines. Patients with chronic kidney disease will also need adequate planning and pre-hydration to reduce the risk of worsening renal function. ## Technique or Treatment For cardiac catheterization procedures that require arterial access, the 2 common sites used include the common femoral