by population and age, most commonly occurring in those with a previous diagnosis of heart disease. Most of all cardiac deaths are sudden and usually unexpected, which has proven to be uniformly fatal in the past. However, bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and advances within emergency medical services (EMS) have proven life-saving interventions. Despite this, approximately 10% of those suffering from cardiac arrest leave the hospital alive, most of which are neurologically impaired.[3] ## Etiology Cardiac arrest is usually due to underlying structural cardiac disease. Seventy percent of cardiac arrest cases are thought to be due to ischemic coronary disease[2], the leading cause of cardiac arrest. Other structural causes include congestive heart failure, left ventricular hypertrophy, congenital coronary artery abnormalities, arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia, hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy, and cardiac tamponade. Nonstructural cardiac causes include Brugada syndrome, Wolf-Parkinson-White syndrome and congenital long QT syndrome. There are many non-cardiac etiologies including intracranial hemorrhage, pulmonary embolism, pneumothorax, primary respiratory arrest, toxic ingestions including drug overdose, electrolyte abnormalities, severe infection (sepsis), hypothermia, or trauma. ## Epidemiology Occlusive (ischemic) coronary disease is the leading cause of cardiac arrest and sudden cardiac death.[4] An initial peak of sudden death occurs from birth to 6 months of age, from sudden infant death syndrome. Incidence is typically very low until reaching a second peak between ages 45 to 75. Interestingly, the most common cause of cardiac death seen in adolescent and young adults mirrors that of middle-aged and older adults.[5] Within the United States, up to 70% of all sudden cardiac death is due to underlying coronary heart disease.[2] The incidence of cardiac death is lower for women at a younger age when compared to males.[6] Despite the lower risk for women, risk factors for occlusive heart disease such as hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, cigarette smoking, increasing age and family history of coronary disease continue to predispose to cardiac death, as in males.[6] ## History and Physical In many patients, warning symptoms may precede a cardiac arrest. However, many times these symptoms are unrecognized or ignored by the individual.[7] Many patients who survive cardiac arrest have amnesia, not allowing for the recollection of symptoms before an event. Data obtained from those who did not have amnesia, from family members and/or from those who witnessed the event shows that the most common symptom was chest pain.[7] Appropriately, this mirrors the most common presentations of acute coronary ischemia. An individual found to