acute consumption of alcohol promotes myocardial inflammation leading to increased troponin concentration in serum, tachyarrhythmias including atrial fibrillation and rarely ventricular fibrillation. Chronic alcohol consumption can cause multi-organ damage including myocardial dysfunction. There are no specific targeted histological or immunological biomarkers for the diagnosis of alcohol-induced cardiomyopathy. The key diagnostic element is the absence of coronary artery disease. Various pathophysiological mechanisms have been postulated in the development of cardiomyopathy however one key factor undergoing active research is the role of genetic mutation and susceptibility to develop cardiomyopathy. The postulated mechanism includes mitochondria damage, oxidative stress injury, apoptosis, modification of actin and myosin structure, and alteration of calcium homeostasis. Alcohol consumption causes an increase in mitochondrial fragmentation. Studies have shown an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) level in myocytes following alcohol consumption and thus causes oxidation of lipids, proteins, and DNA leading to cardiac dysfunction. These changes are related to both direct alcohol toxicity on cardiac cells and the indirect toxicity of major alcohol metabolites such as acetaldehyde. The pathogenesis of ACM also involves interaction between genetically related factors, such as HLA subtypes or the alcohol dehydrogenase enzyme allele as well as non-genetic factors including thiamine deficiency and exposure of various substances that are directly toxic to cardiac cells. These structural and intracellular alterations cause activation in compensatory mechanisms in response to cardiac dysfunction such as the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, increase sympathetic signal firing and an increase in brain natriuretic peptide release. These mechanisms are responsible for an increase in preload, left ventricular dilation, and decreased cardiac output which all contribute to the clinical manifestation of ACM.[11][12] A study by Ware et al. evaluated cardiomyopathy associated genetics in the pathophysiology of dilated cardiomyopathy and determined titin truncating variants (TTNtv) gene to be prevalent in the genetic disposition of dilated cardiomyopathy with worse left ventricular ejection fraction.[13] Other deficiencies including nutritional such as thiamine or other toxic materials ingested may lead to additional concomitant complications. ## Histopathology There are no specific histological changes in cardiomyocytes. Alcohol may induce changes at the cellular level. Certain microscopic features may suggest damage secondary to alcohol causing cardiomyopathy. Commonly seen cellular structural alterations include changes in the mitochondrial reticulum, cluster formation of mitochondria and disappearance of inter-mitochondrial junctions. In later stages, minor mitochondria and septic mitochondria can be seen. Enzymatic activity changes which are seen in the idiopathic cardiomyopathy including decreased activity of oxygen reduction mitochondrial