secondary to alcohol is initially reversible however prolonged sustained alcohol use leads to irreversible dysfunction. Dilated cardiomyopathy secondary to alcohol use does not have a pre-defined exposure time. Daily alcohol consumption of 80 g per day or more for more than 5 years significantly increases the risk, however not all chronic alcohol users will develop Alcohol-induced cardiomyopathy. There is neither a certain amount of alcohol known to be toxic to myocardial cells nor is there a specified period of exposure time to develop ACM. Alcohol consumption of 80 g per day for at least 5 years significantly increases the risk of developing ACM but, not all chronic alcohol abusers develop ACM.[6][7] Drinking habits and echocardiogram evaluation were studied in (CARDIA) in 2368 adults in a long follow up. Increased alcohol intake had a direct inverse adverse association with ventricular structure. Increase alcohol consumption had greater indexed left ventricular mass and increased left ventricular end-diastolic volume after 20 years. Alcohol consumption did not show any association with systolic dysfunction. [8] ## Epidemiology Alcoholic cardiomyopathy is a leading cause of non-ischemic dilated cardiomyopathy in United States. Incidence of alcoholic cardiomyopathy ranges from 1-2% of all heavy alcohol users. It is estimated, approximately 21-36% of all non-ischemic cardiomyopathies are attributed to alcohol. The prevalance of alcoholic cardiomyopathy in addiction units is estimated around 21-32 %. Overall data with regards to alcohol induced cardiomyopathy is insuffienct and does not illustrate significant available data. Most common age population for ACM is males from age 30-55 with significant history of alcohol use for more than 10 years. Females constitute roughly 14 % of cases of alcohol induced cardiomyopathy however lifetime exposure required for women to develop alcohol induced cardiomyopathy is less compared to men. Mortality rates are higher for males compared to females and more in blacks compared to white population[9][10] Interactions between genetic and non-genetic factors, exposure to other cardiotoxic substances, or mineral deficiencies such as thiamine play an important role in determining progression of alcoholic cardiomyopathy ## Pathophysiology Alcohol-induced cardiotoxicity can be characterized by acute and chronic. Acute can be defined as large volume acute consumption of alcohol promotes myocardial inflammation leading to increased troponin concentration in serum, tachyarrhythmias including atrial fibrillation and rarely ventricular fibrillation. Chronic alcohol consumption can cause multi-organ damage including myocardial dysfunction. There are no specific targeted histological or immunological biomarkers for the diagnosis of alcohol-induced cardiomyopathy. The key diagnostic