paratracheal stripe is a subtle line projecting through the superior vena cava. Thickened right paratracheal stripe of more than 4 mm suggests lesions in this region, most commonly lymphadenopathy. The aorticopulmonary window extends from the aortic knob to the left pulmonary artery. This is usually concave or straight. A convex contour is considered abnormal and suggests mediastinal lymphadenopathy or aortic aneurysm. The paraspinal lines are seen due to the opposition between the pleural reflection and the vertebral bodies. The paraspinal lines are obscured by posterior mediastinal masses such as neurogenic tumors and metastasis. Chest fluoroscopy is continuous real-time imaging using X-rays. It is used to detect diaphragmatic paralysis. A special study performed under fluoroscopy includes a barium swallow, which can help diagnose esophageal diseases such as ulcers, hiatal hernia, achalasia, or esophageal cancer. ## Computed Tomography CT is the modality of choice in evaluating mediastinal pathology. Multidetector CT chest is commonly used in the emergency department and inpatient settings. The sagittal and coronal reformats are widely used and extremely helpful in evaluating mediastinal masses. 3-D reconstructions, including multiplanar reformation or reconstruction (MPR) and maximum intensity projections (MIPS) sequences, are also helpful in evaluating mediastinal lesions such as aneurysms. However, the associated radiation dose is a disadvantage with this modality. A contrast-enhanced CT chest is usually performed when evaluating mediastinal masses. This allows for delineation between the vasculature and the adjacent structures, such as lymph nodes and esophagus. CT allows for the evaluation of masses based on the anatomic location. The attenuation coefficient of the mass also helps in narrowing the differential. The presence of air within the mediastinum is consistent with pneumomediastinum. Pneumomediastinum can be spontaneous or secondary to trauma or non-traumatic causes. Nontraumatic causes include asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Iatrogenic causes like endoscopy procedures and central vascular access procedures are frequent causes of pneumomediastinum. Mediastinal masses, on the other hand, can be fluid, fat, or soft tissue in attenuation. In the anterior mediastinum, a fat-containing lesion highly suggests a teratoma. The differential would, however, also include lipoma and thymolipoma. Thymolipoma is a well-encapsulated thymic tumor and can be seen in the cardiophrenic angle.[4] Most teratomas can, however, have different tissue attenuation depending on the ectodermal, mesodermal, and endodermal components. Hence, these are usually solid cystic lesions with fat, soft tissue, and calcifications. Thymic cysts are also seen in the anterior mediastinum and are typically unilocular. Cystic