the descending aorta without the involvement of the ascending aorta. CT angiograms performed for aortic dissection incorporated an unenhanced phase, arterial phase, and venous phase sequences. The unenhanced phase is important for evaluating intramural hematoma and hemopericardium. Intramural hematoma is curvilinear hyperdense lesions on the unenhanced CT within the aortic lumen. The studies are usually EKG-gated to reduce motion artifacts. 3-D volume-rendered reformats are particularly helpful in evaluating the extent of dissection and involvement of the branch vessels. Penetrating ulcers are atherosclerotic plaques that disrupt the intima. Congenital vasculature abnormalities include a right-sided aortic arch, a double aortic arch, an aberrant right subclavian artery, and a left superior vena cava. While these are uncommon, they have important clinical significance. Pulmonary embolism, another life-threatening condition, can be assessed using CT pulmonary angiograms. Based on imaging features, pulmonary embolism can be further classified as acute or chronic based on the age of the embolus. The difference between CT pulmonary angiograms and CT angiograms for dissection is that the region of interest, which triggers the scan in bolus dose triggering, is placed on the pulmonary artery in case of a CT pulmonary angiogram and usually in the ascending aorta on a CT angiogram for aortic dissection.[8][9] The advantage of a CT pulmonary angiogram over the ventilation/perfusion (V/Q) scan is that it simultaneously evaluates the lungs for pulmonary infarction and assesses right heart strain. However, CT is associated with higher radiation exposure. Dual-energy CT is a more recent technique used to detect pulmonary emboli better. Triple rule-out studies that evaluate for aortic dissection, pulmonary embolism, and coronary artery CT angiograms have been used in the emergency room to rule out all 3 causes of acute chest pain. ## Magnetic Resonance Patients with contraindications for contrast-enhanced CT, such as severe contrast allergy or renal failure, are candidates for MRI. This modality does not use ionizing radiation and can be safely used in young and female patients. The disadvantages of MRI include increased cost, longer scan time than CT, and is dependent on patient cooperation because of the higher chances of motion-related artifacts. Standard sequences include T2-weighted sequences in the axial and coronal planes, axial STIR sequence, in and opposed phase T1-weighted sequences in the axial plane, diffusion-weighted sequence Precontrast T1-weighted sequence and postcontrast T1-weighted sequences in early arterial phase, portal venous phase, and 5-minute delay.[10] MRI is used due to its superior resolution of soft