can be seen in the cardiophrenic angle.[4] Most teratomas can, however, have different tissue attenuation depending on the ectodermal, mesodermal, and endodermal components. Hence, these are usually solid cystic lesions with fat, soft tissue, and calcifications. Thymic cysts are also seen in the anterior mediastinum and are typically unilocular. Cystic lesions in the middle mediastinum are usually bronchogenic cysts, foregut duplication cysts, and enteric cysts and are common benign etiologies.[5] Pericardial cysts are generally seen in the cardiophrenic angles and are unilocular. Cystic lesions in the posterior mediastinum are usually meningoceles. Meningocele is a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) filled protrusion of the leptomeninges through defects in the vertebral body or along the intervertebral foramina. Soft tissue masses include the substernal extension of goiter in the anterior mediastinum, thymic hyperplasia, thymoma, thymic carcinoma, lymphoma, nonnecrotic metastatic lymph nodes, soft tissue masses arising from the trachea, esophagus, and neurogenic tumors. Thymic hyperplasia or thymic rebound occurs as a result of contrast chemotherapy. Thymic hyperplasia can be differentiated from thymic tumors as the triangular contour of the thymus is maintained. Thymoma accounts for 47% of tumors in the anterior mediastinum.[6] They can invade adjacent thoracic structures. Metastasis is rare. Thymic carcinoma, on the other hand, shows local invasion along with distant metastasis. Calcifications can be seen in both thymoma and thymic carcinoma. Soft tissue tumors in the posterior mediastinum include neurogenic tumors such as schwannomas and neurofibromas. Schwannomas grow through the intervertebral foramina, producing a dumbbell configuration. **Imaging for Acute Aortic Syndrome and Pulmonary Embolism** An increase in aortic diameter greater than 4 cm in the ascending aorta is considered pathologic. An aortic aneurysm with an increase in the size of greater than 10 mm per year is considered unstable, along with associated intramural hematoma or eccentric lumen.[7] Aortic aneurysms can be traumatic, degenerative, or due to congenital defects such as Marfan syndrome. Aortic dissection is identified on CT angiograms as a thin intraluminal flap within the aorta. The Stanford classification classifies as sections into Stanford type A, which involves the ascending aorta and is a surgical emergency, and Stanford type B, which involves the descending aorta without the involvement of the ascending aorta. CT angiograms performed for aortic dissection incorporated an unenhanced phase, arterial phase, and venous phase sequences. The unenhanced phase is important for evaluating intramural hematoma and hemopericardium. Intramural hematoma is curvilinear hyperdense lesions on the unenhanced CT within the aortic