and vomiting may also be a sign of visceral pain. Diaphragmatic irritation may refer to the shoulders as well.[1] Somatic pain is more specific than visceral pain, and patients will usually be able to point to a specific spot. Somatic pain is also less likely to refer to other parts of the body. Common descriptors of somatic pain are sharp, stabbing, and poking. ## Epidemiology In the emergency department, chest pain is the second most common complaint comprising approximately 5% of all emergency department visits. In evaluating for chest pain, the provider should always consider life-threatening causes of chest pain. These are listed below with approximate percent occurrence in patients presenting to the emergency department with chest pain based on a study by Fruerfaard et al. [2] - Acute coronary syndrome (ACS), 31% - Pulmonary embolism (PE), 2% - Pneumothorax (PTX), unreported - Pericardial tamponade, unreported (pericarditis 4%) - Aortic dissection, 1% - Esophageal perforation, unreported Other common causes of chest pain with approximate percent occurrence in patients presenting to the emergency department with chest pain include: - Gastrointestinal reflux disease, 30% - Musculoskeletal causes, 28% - Pneumonia/pleuritis, 2% - Herpes zoster 0.5% - Pericarditis, unreported ## History and Physical **History** Like all workups, chest pain evaluation starts with taking a complete history. Start by getting a good understanding of their complaint. - Onset: In addition to when the pain started, ask what the patient was doing when the pain started. Was the pain brought on by exertion, or were they at rest? - Location: Can the patient localize the pain with one finger, or is it diffuse? - Duration: How long did the pain last? - Character: Let the patient describe the pain in his or her own words. - Aggravation/alleviating factors: It is very important to find out what makes the pain worse. Is there an exertional component, is it associated with eating or breathing? Is there a positional component? Don't forget to ask about new workout routines, sports, and lifting. Ask what medications they have tried. - Radiation: This may clue you into visceral pain. - Timing: How many times do they experience this pain? For how long does it let up? Ask about other symptoms, such as: - Shortness of breath - Nausea and vomiting - Fever - Diaphoresis - Cough - Dyspepsia - Edema - Calf pain or swelling - Recent illness Evaluate for any