T2-weighted sequences in the axial and coronal planes, axial STIR sequence, in and opposed phase T1-weighted sequences in the axial plane, diffusion-weighted sequence Precontrast T1-weighted sequence and postcontrast T1-weighted sequences in early arterial phase, portal venous phase, and 5-minute delay.[10] MRI is used due to its superior resolution of soft tissue structures over CT for distinguishing thymic and other malignant tumors from benign lesions and detecting invasion of the surrounding structures. The normal thymus and thymic hyperplasia contain a small amount of fat. Microscopic fat is difficult to evaluate on CT. However, MRI can distinguish thymic hyperplasia from a thymoma because of the T1-weighted in-phase and out-of-phase images that detect microscopic fat. Decreased signal intensity on T1-weighted out-phase images compared to in-phase images is noted in thymic hyperplasia. This finding is absent in thymoma. Additionally, MRI can be used to assess congenital cardiac diseases and for those who require annual surveillance for aneurysms, which may be seen in patients with connective tissue disorders such as Marfan's syndrome. Gated cardiac MRI is used to assess cardiomyopathy and valvular heart diseases. ## Ultrasonography Ultrasonography (USG) is commonly used to assess heart function and structure through echocardiography. USG is a non-ionizing modality that can be performed at the bedside to evaluate and quantitate pleural effusions. Conventional ultrasound-guided biopsy and endobronchial ultrasonography (EBUS) are used to detect and obtain tissue from mediastinal masses and lymphadenopathy.[11] Ultrasound of the testis: If a male patient has an anterior mediastinal mass suspected or proven to be a germ cell tumor, an ultrasound of the testis should be performed to exclude a primary gonadal tumor. ## Nuclear Medicine Various studies in nuclear medicine have been used to assess mediastinal masses, and they are listed below. **PET-CT** PET CT utilizes 18-F-fluorodeoxyglucose, a radiopharmaceutical agent, for diagnosis and staging of treatment for neoplasms. There are 2 separate acquisitions, PET and CT, during the study. The CT is used for attenuation correction and anatomic localization. Typically, the CT is performed without intravenous contrast. However, the study may be performed with intravenous and oral contrast based on the indication of the examination. PET-CT is useful in most malignant lesions, and concerning mediastinal masses, it is typically used for lymphoma, esophageal, and lung malignancies. Lymphomas are avid FDGs, and PET-CTs are helpful in staging and restaging the disease. Thymic tumors can also demonstrate FDG uptake.[12] It is a very useful modality to assess