(PCV). The 2 vaccines used until 2021 were the pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV) 23 and PCV13. In summer 2021, the US FDA approved 2 additional preparations, PCV20 and PCV15, for adult vaccinations. Since then, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommendations favored using these latter formulations for adult vaccinations. Current ACIP recommendations for previously unvaccinated, non-immune-compromised individuals who are at least aged 65 years, as well as those between 19 to 64 years with risk factors for pneumonia, receive either PCV20 alone or PCV15 coupled with PPSV23 one year later. For adults who already had vaccinations with prior formulations (PCV13 or PPSV23), subsequent options are different. Those who received only PCV13 can be followed by PPSV23 vaccination a year later. If the prior vaccine was only with PPSV23, then after a year, either PCV20 alone or PCV15 followed a year later with another PPSV23 can be given. The 1-year interval between pneumococcal doses can be shortened to 8 weeks for immunocompromised individuals. Influenza vaccination is recommended for all adult patients at risk for influenza-related complications. Inactivated flu shots (trivalent or quadrivalent, egg-based or recombinant) are usually recommended for adults. Live attenuated intranasal vaccine can be given to healthy, nonpregnant adults under 49. This is contraindicated in pregnancy, the immune-suppressed and health care workers caring for them, and in those with comorbidities. COVID-19 vaccination is recommended for all non-immune-compromised adults with either a single dose of a 2023-24 mRNA vaccine regardless of previous vaccination and that it be given at least 2 months after the most recent prior dose of COVID-19 vaccine. Novavax (protein-based) vaccine is given in 2 doses separated by 3 to 8 weeks for unvaccinated individuals. In contrast, a single dose after 2 months of the last dose is sufficient for those previously vaccinated with any other formulation of the COVID-19 vaccine. For individuals with moderate to severe immune compromise, 3 or 4 vaccine doses are recommended, with at least one using an mRNA formulation. A vaccine against respiratory syncytial virus is recommended for adults over 60 who may be at risk for severe disease. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Patients with community-acquired pneumonia may present to the clinician or the emergency department. The medical staff should be aware of the signs and symptoms associated with pneumonia. Working together, the healthcare team will improve outcomes. Members can include primary care, emergency department personnel, specialists, nurses, and pharmacists.