duration of therapy is 5 to 7 days in patients with a favorable clinical response, such as the absence of fever for more than 48 to 72 hours, not requiring supplemental oxygen, and resolution of tachycardia, tachypnea, or hypotension. Prolongation of therapy is indicated in patients with a delayed response, specific bacterial pathogens such as Pseudomonas (14-21 days) or _S aureus_ (7-21 days), or Legionella pneumonia (14 days), and for complications such as empyema, lung abscess, or necrotizing pneumonia. Chest tube placement will be needed to drain an empyema, and in cases with multiple loculations, a surgical decortication may be needed. A 14-day therapy with macrolide or doxycycline will treat tularemia pneumonia or psittacosis, and itraconazole is the drug of choice for pneumonia caused by coccidioidomycosis or histoplasmosis. A 5-day therapy with oseltamivir is recommended for all patients who test positive for the influenza virus and present within 48 hours of symptom onset; there is no benefit to oseltamivir if started beyond 48 hours after symptom onset. Still, any hospitalized patients with influenza must be treated with this agent regardless of the presentation time from the beginning of the illness. Intravenous glucocorticoids can be considered adjunctive therapy in critically ill patients with severe community-acquired pneumonia without risk factors for adverse outcomes from using steroids (eg, influenza infection). They are associated with reductions in short-term mortality and duration of intensive care days.[15][16][17][18] ## Differential Diagnosis Differential diagnoses for community-acquired pneumonia include: - Acute bronchitis - Acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis - Aspiration pneumonitis - Congestive heart failure and pulmonary edema - Pulmonary fibrosis - Myocardial infarction - Systemic lupus erythematosus pneumonitis - Pulmonary drug hypersensitivity reactions (nitrofurantoin, daptomycin) - Drug-induced pulmonary disease (bleomycin) - Sarcoidosis - Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia - Pulmonary embolus - Pulmonary infarction - Bronchogenic carcinomas - Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener granulomatosis) - Lymphoma - Tracheobronchitis - Radiation pneumonitis ## Pearls and Other Issues Vaccine recommendations evolve in parallel with changing epidemiology vaccine developments and formulation advancements. All adults 65 years and older and those younger than 65 and considered at risk for pneumonia must receive a pneumococcal vaccination (PCV). The 2 vaccines used until 2021 were the pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV) 23 and PCV13. In summer 2021, the US FDA approved 2 additional preparations, PCV20 and PCV15, for adult vaccinations. Since then, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommendations favored using these latter formulations for adult vaccinations.