determining the treatment setting, such as outpatient versus inpatient. Still, accuracy is limited when used alone or without practical clinical judgment. In hospitalized patients, blood and sputum cultures should be collected, preferably before the institution of antimicrobial therapy, but without delay in treatment. If cultures are negative, urine collection and testing for \_\_ legionella \_\_ and pneumococcal antigens must be considered as they aid in diagnosis. In the presence of confounding comorbidities, such as congestive heart failure, serum procalcitonin levels can be used as a biomarker to initiate and guide antimicrobial therapy. Serology for tularemia, endemic mycoses, or _C psittaci_ can be evaluated in the presence of epidemiologic clues.[9][10][11] ## Treatment / Management Monotherapy with a macrolide (erythromycin, azithromycin, or clarithromycin), amoxicillin, or doxycycline is recommended in the outpatient setting. In the presence of comorbid illness (chronic heart disease excluding hypertension); chronic lung disease (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma); chronic liver disease; chronic alcohol use disorder; diabetes mellitus; smoking; splenectomy; human immunodeficiency virus (or other immunosuppression); a respiratory fluoroquinolone (high-dose levofloxacin, moxifloxacin, gemifloxacin); a combination of oral beta-lactam (high dose amoxicillin or amoxicillin-clavulanate, cefuroxime, cefpodoxime); and macrolide is recommended.[11][12][13][14] Inpatient management is recommended for patients with a CURB 65 score greater than or equal to 2. A respiratory fluoroquinolone monotherapy or combination therapy with beta-lactam (cefotaxime, ceftriaxone, ampicillin-sulbactam, or ertapenem) and macrolide are recommended options for non-intensive care settings. Admission to the intensive care unit must be considered in patients with 3 or more signs of early deterioration. These include respiratory rate greater than 30, PaO2/FiO2 less than or equal to 250, multilobar infiltrates, encephalopathy, thrombocytopenia, hypothermia, leucopenia, and hypotension. Combination therapy with a beta-lactam and either a macrolide or a respiratory fluoroquinolone is recommended. In patients with suspected aspiration, ampicillin-sulbactam or ertapenem can be used. Monotherapy is not recommended. If risk factors for Pseudomonas are present, then antipseudomonal beta-lactam (piperacillin-tazobactam, cefepime, ceftazidime, meropenem, imipenem) along with either an antipseudomonal fluoroquinolone (ciprofloxacin or levofloxacin) or a combination of aminoglycoside and azithromycin are recommended. Vancomycin or linezolid should be added if community-acquired methicillin-resistant _S aureus_ is a consideration. The recommended duration of therapy is 5 to 7 days in patients with a favorable clinical response, such as the absence of fever for more than 48 to 72 hours, not requiring supplemental oxygen, and resolution of tachycardia, tachypnea, or hypotension. Prolongation of therapy is indicated in patients with a delayed response,