The metanephros gives rise to the permanent kidney. Most of the mesonephros later disintegrates, though some mesonephric ducts remain in the adult male reproductive system. Ureteric bud development is regulated by different molecular pathways, including glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor rearranged in transfection (_GDNF-RET),_ bone morphogenic protein 4 (_BMP4_), and _Gremlin. A_ delicate balance exists between ureteric bud growth and ureteric stalk elongation. _BMP4_ influence suppresses ureteric bud development while stimulating ureteric stalk elongation. Gremlin expression counters _BMP4_ 's actions, stimulating ureteric bud development. This finely orchestrated balance ensures that a single ureteric bud develops from each nephrogenic cord.[12] Disruptions in embryologic development can cause congenital abnormalities of the kidney and urinary tract (CAKUT). Common congenital urinary tract anomalies include partial and complete duplications, preureteral vena cava anomalies (retrocaval ureters), UPJ obstructions, ureteroceles, and ectopic ureters. ## Blood Supply and Lymphatics The ureters receive blood from multiple arterial branches.[13] The abdominal aorta and renal, gonadal, and common iliac arteries supply the abdominal ureter. These vessels access the ureter medially. Distal ureteral parts receive circulation from the vesical and uterine arteries, which are internal iliac artery branches. The arteries course along the ureter, creating an anastomotic plexus. This arterial network allows for the safe mobilization of the ureter during surgery when proper exposure from the surrounding structures is crucial. However, the ureter cannot be resected proximally and distally simultaneously, which will overly compromise its blood supply. The ureter's venous and lymphatic drainage mirrors that of the arterial supply. The lymphatic vessels empty into the internal, external, and common iliac nodes.[14] The left ureter's lymphatic drainage courses to the left paraaortic lymph nodes. Lymph drainage of the right ureter is mainly toward the right paracaval and interaortocaval lymph nodes. ## Nerves The exact role of ureteral innervation is unclear, but the motor impulses for ureteral peristalsis originate from the intrinsic smooth muscular pacemaker sites. The minor calyces house the pacemaker sites within the renal collecting system.[15] Preganglionic sympathetic stimulation comes from T10 to L2 fibers.[16] The aorticorenal, superior, and inferior hypogastric autonomic plexuses give rise to the postganglionic fibers. Meanwhile, S2 to S4 sacral pelvic splanchnic nerves provide ureteral parasympathetic innervation. ## Muscles The ureter has 3 layers: the mucosa (innermost layer), muscularis (middle layer), and adventitia (outer layer). Transitional epithelium lines the ureteral mucosa. Keratin is primarily responsible for this layer's waterproof properties. The muscularis is comprised of 2 longitudinal muscle