from compromised blood flow or mechanical obstruction.[27][28] After surgical decompression, the abdominal fascia may be left open temporarily. The open wound is often covered by a negative pressure dressing system, which helps minimize the risks of infections and fistulas, decreases insensible losses, and prevents retraction of the fascia. With clinical improvement, the patient can return to the operating room within several days for further evaluation and attempted fascial closure, which can be achieved with mesh or primary closure techniques.[6][9] However, some of these approaches may not be feasible at all facilities due to limited resources.[29] Although surgical decompression is considered a definitive treatment for ACS, it can be associated with many complications, especially when the abdomen wall is left open. Some complications include fistula formation, protein loss by drainage of peritoneal fluid, abdominal wall retraction with ventral hernia development, and wound infection. In addition, up to 20% of surgical decompression is associated with recurrent ACS either due to ongoing causative agents or inadequate lowering of IAP.[23] Despite extensive literature published on ACS, the ideal timing for surgical decompression is debatable. Early pursuit of surgical intervention can exacerbate stress on the patient from the surgery itself. Thus, the consensus within the medical community is to consider surgery when multiple conservative management treatments have not improved the patient's condition.[7] ## Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis for ACS includes mesenteric ischemia, ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm, toxic megacolon, acute appendicitis, and acute diverticulitis. ## Prognosis If left untreated, abdominal compartment syndrome can be fatal, and delayed treatment is associated with high mortality rates. IAH has been identified as an independent predictor of mortality, with each grade associated with worsening outcomes.[9][19] Many series report that the resulting multiorgan failure can delay recovery for weeks or months, even with treatment. Prolonged need for mechanical ventilation, dialysis, and more extended hospital stays are also common in these patients. ## Complications ACS complications include the following: - Renal failure - Bowel ischemia - Respiratory distress or failure - Increased cranial pressure - Cardiac failure - Potential death ## Deterrence and Patient Education The keys to preventing ACS development are, first and foremost, to measure IAP in any patient with risk factors, especially ICU patients. Other practices to minimize IAH are judicious use of IV fluids and blood products; avoiding a significantly positive fluid balance; using low tidal volumes in mechanical ventilation; using intestinal prokinetic medications to avoid ileus