there, these muscular tubes travel along the pelvis' lateral wall and connect to the urinary bladder. The ureters' abdominal regions are retroperitoneal throughout their course. The gonadal vessels pass anterior to the ureter a third of the way to the bladder. The ureters enter the bladder on the posteroinferior lateral wall, where they fuse with the trigone.[9] Each ureter traverses the detrusor muscle layers obliquely upon entering the bladder, forming the intramural ureter before emptying into the bladder through the ureteral orifice. This transverse entry into the bladder creates an anti-reflux valvular mechanism that prevents retrograde flow from the bladder to the kidneys during detrusor contractions.[10] The ureteral orifices are about 2.5 cm apart when the bladder is empty but can stretch up to 5 cm apart when the bladder is fully distended. The right ureter's anatomic relationships differ from those of the left. The right ureter lies near the ascending colon, cecum, and appendix, while the left is close to the descending and sigmoid colon. Each adult ureter has an average length of 26 cm long, though these tubes' length can range between 22 and 30 cm long. Each ureter follows an "S" shaped curve as it travels from the kidney to the bladder. The ureter is anatomically and functionally divided into 3 segments: proximal, distal, and intramural. - The proximal ureter (abdominal or upper ureter) is the segment extending from the renal pelvis to the iliac bifurcation. This region is buried mostly within the retroperitoneal fat, except where it passes directly over the psoas muscle. Thus, the proximal ureter can be hard to identify surgically. The genitofemoral nerve lies on the surface of the psoas muscle, just posterior to the proximal ureter. The ureters typically course inferior to the gonadal vessels (testicular or ovarian vessels). This surgically important relationship is best remembered by the phrase "water under the bridge," referring to the ureter's water content and uterine artery's horizontal orientation in this region (see **Image**. Female Reproductive System Blood Supply). - The distal ureter (pelvic or lower ureter) extends from the iliac bifurcation to the bladder.[11] This ureteral segment takes a sharp turn posteriorly immediately upon entering the pelvis. From there, the ureter curves back and follows the lateral pelvic wall inferiorly to connect with the posterolateral bladder wall. - The intramural ureter lies at the UVJ and is typically about 2-cm long. This portion of the muscular