segment takes a sharp turn posteriorly immediately upon entering the pelvis. From there, the ureter curves back and follows the lateral pelvic wall inferiorly to connect with the posterolateral bladder wall. - The intramural ureter lies at the UVJ and is typically about 2-cm long. This portion of the muscular tube is buried within the urinary bladder wall on either side and is covered by the fibromuscular Waldeyer's sheath. This fibromuscular covering starts 2 to 3 cm from the outer bladder wall and continues longitudinally until the ureter merges with the trigone. The intramural ureter is aperistaltic, serving as a reflux-preventing mechanism. This segment is the ureter's narrowest portion and the most common location for ureteral calculus obstruction. In men, the ureters pass posterior to the vas deferens but anterior to the seminal vesicles before entering the bladder (see **Image**. Median Sagittal Section of the Male Pelvis). In women, the ureter passes inferior to the insertion of the infundibulopelvic ligament in the pelvis. From there, the ureter travels posterior to the ovaries and fallopian tubes. The ureter lies about 2.5 cm posterior to the uterine artery. The female ureter accompanies the uterine artery and inferior hypogastric nerve plexus in the cardinal ligament. The ureters pass close to the cervix before traveling to the bladder. ## Embryology In week 4, the development of the urinary tract, which includes the kidney, ureter, and bladder, begins with the appearance of the nephrogenic cord in the intermediate mesoderm. The nephrogenic cord gives rise to 3 types of urinary organs. The primitive, cephalically located pronephros appears first. Pronephric ducts also develop craniocaudally and drain the pronephros. The pronephros and pronephric ducts later disintegrate with the development of the slightly more advanced and caudally positioned mesonephros. The mesonephric ducts (Wolffian ducts) develop craniocaudally alongside the mesonephros. This urinary organ disappears with the development of the metanephros caudad. The mesonephric duct develops a caudal outgrowth, the metanephric diverticulum (ureteric bud), from which the ureters develop. The metanephric diverticulum arises near the cranial aspect of the metanephros and collecting tubules, which become confluent and form the major calyces. The metanephros gives rise to the permanent kidney. Most of the mesonephros later disintegrates, though some mesonephric ducts remain in the adult male reproductive system. Ureteric bud development is regulated by different molecular pathways, including glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor rearranged in transfection (_GDNF-RET),_ bone morphogenic protein 4 (_BMP4_), and