an aging population and a rise in risk factors such as hypertension and diabetes. Healthcare professionals should be familiar with the pathophysiology, presentation, and treatment of heart failure because of the morbidity, mortality, and projected increased prevalence of the condition.[1][2][3] Heart failure is a clinical syndrome and encompasses a constellation of symptoms secondary to impaired cardiac function; there are numerous etiologies for impaired heart function. The causative factors for heart failure are generally divided into structural or functional categories. Patients who have heart failure can also be classified based on the stage or degree of heart failure and symptoms, including episodes of acute exacerbation and pulmonary edema. Heart failure can be divided into 2 broad categories: heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpE) and heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF). The incidence of HFpEF increases with age, and most cases of heart failure in older patients are due to HFpEF.[1][3] Acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF) is a common and potentially fatal cause of cardiac dysfunction that can present with acute respiratory distress. In ADHF, pulmonary edema and the rapid accumulation of fluid within the interstitial and alveolar spaces lead to significant dyspnea and respiratory decompensation. There are many different causes of pulmonary edema, though cardiogenic pulmonary edema is usually a result of acutely elevated cardiac filling pressures.[4] ## Etiology In the United States, there are many causes of heart failure—the most common of which is coronary artery disease. Identifying the risk factors for heart failure is important because this condition is preventable. Acknowledging the preventable nature of heart failure, the American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association have updated their classification systems to identify patients without structural abnormalities early, enabling timely and appropriate treatment. Treatment of systolic and diastolic hypertension concurrently in alignment with contemporary guidelines reduces the risk of heart failure by approximately 50%.[1] **Risk Factors for Heart Failure** - Coronary artery disease (CAD) - Connective tissue disorders (ie, rheumatoid arthritis, scleroderma, systemic lupus erythematosus) - Endocrine disorders (ie, diabetes mellitus, thyroid function disorders, growth hormone deficiency) - Hypertension - High-output conditions (ie, anemia, Paget disease) - Valvular heart disease - Metabolic causes (ie, obesity) - Myocarditis (ie, secondary to human immunodeficiency virus and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, medications, or viruses) - Infiltrative disorders (ie, amyloidosis, sarcoidosis) - Peripartum cardiomyopathy - Stress cardiomyopathy (Takotsubo) - Valvular heart disease - Medications (ie, amphetamines, anabolic steroids) - Tachycardia induced