forming PCr from mitochondrial ATP, cytosolic CK regenerates ATP from ADP using PCr. This happens at intracellular sites where ATP is used in the cell, with CK acting as an in situ ATP regenerator. Mt-CK and cytosolic CK are connected in a so-called PCr/Cr-shuttle or circuit.[8] PCr generated by Mt-CK in mitochondria is shuttled to cytosolic CK that is coupled to ATP-dependent processes, eg, ATPases, such as actomyosin ATPase and calcium ATPase involved in muscle contraction, and sodium/potassium ATPase involved in sodium retention in the kidney.[9] The bound cytosolic CK accepts PCr shuttled through the cell and uses ADP to regenerate ATP, which the ATPases use as an energy source (CK is associated with the ATPases, forming a coupled microcompartment).[10] PCr is a buffer and transporter between subcellular sites of energy production (mitochondria and glycolysis) and energy utilization (ATPases).[11] Typically, CK is available in heart tissue, skeletal muscles, the brain, etc. However, upon muscular injury, leakage of CK into the bloodstream occurs. Thus, CK is indicative of muscular damage. CPK-MB is a more specific indicator of myocardial muscle damage, while CPK-MM is more indicative of skeletal muscle damage.[12] CK activity in the serum of healthy people is almost exclusively due to MM activity (though small amounts of CPK-MB may be present) due to the physiological turnover of muscle tissue.[13] When electrophoresed, CPK-MM runs closest to the cathode, CPK-MB has intermediate mobility, and CPK-BB moves farthest from the point of application toward the anode. Mt-CK, which runs more cathodal than the MM fraction, is usually associated with tissue necrosis that accompanies severe anoxic shock and liver disease.[14] CK activity is also found in a macromolecular form—the so-called macro-CK. Macro-CK is transiently found in sera of up to 6% of hospitalized patients, but only a small proportion of these have increased CK activities in serum.[15] The enzyme exists in 2 forms, types 1 and 2. Macro-CK type 1 is a complex of CK, typically CK-BB, and an immunoglobulin, commonly IgG.[16] Macro-CK type 1 is usually seen in women aged older than 50. Macro-CK type 2 is oligomeric Mt-CK found in severely ill adults with malignancies or children with tissue distress.[17] Both M and B subunits have a C-terminal lysine residue, but only the former is hydrolyzed by the action of carboxypeptidases present in the blood. Carboxypeptidases B or N sequentially hydrolyze the lysine residues from CKMM to produce 2 CK-MM isoforms—CK-MM2 (1