adults with malignancies or children with tissue distress.[17] Both M and B subunits have a C-terminal lysine residue, but only the former is hydrolyzed by the action of carboxypeptidases present in the blood. Carboxypeptidases B or N sequentially hydrolyze the lysine residues from CKMM to produce 2 CK-MM isoforms—CK-MM2 (1 lysine residue removed) and CK-MM1 (both lysine residues removed).[18] The loss of positively charged lysine produces a more negatively charged CK molecule with greater anodic mobility at electrophoresis. Because CK-MB has only 1 M subunit, the dimer coded by the M and B genes is CK-MB2, and the lysine-hydrolyzed dimer is CK-MB1. The assay of the CK isoforms requires special techniques, such as high-voltage electrophoresis (with gel cooling), HPLC, chromatofocusing, or immunoassay.[19] ## Specimen Requirements and Procedure Specimens for CK analysis include serum and plasma heparin. Other than heparin, anticoagulants should not be used in collection tubes because they inhibit CK activity. The collection of specimens in gel separator tubes does not appear to affect CK activity compared to tubes without gel.[20] CK activity in serum is relatively unstable and lost during storage. Average stabilities are less than 8 hours at room temperature, 48 hours at 4 ºC, and 1 month at −20 ºC.[21] Therefore, the serum specimen should be stored at −80 Cº if the analysis is delayed for more than 30 days. Since less risk of hemolysis is present, fresh serum is the preferred specimen for analysis of the CK isoenzyme pattern.[22] Of the 3 commonly seen isoenzymes, CK-BB activity is the least stable. Adding a thiol such as 2-mercaptoethanol to the serum improves its stability. CK-MB activity is not significantly reduced when the separated serum is stored for up to 48 hours at 4 ºC or 1 month at −20 ºC. Since the mass measurement is not subject to the loss of enzymatic activity, CK-MB protein concentration in serum is stable for weeks when the specimen is stored under refrigeration and for several years if stored at −20 ºC.[23] ## Testing Procedures Numerous photometric, fluorometric, and coupled-enzyme methods have been developed for the assay of CK activity, using either the forward (Cr --> CRP) or the reverse (Cr \<-- CRP) reaction.[24] All commercial assays for total CK are based on the reverse reaction that proceeds about 6 times faster than the forward reaction. The ATP produced is measured by hexokinase (HK) or glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) coupled reactions