using either the forward (Cr --> CRP) or the reverse (Cr \<-- CRP) reaction.[24] All commercial assays for total CK are based on the reverse reaction that proceeds about 6 times faster than the forward reaction. The ATP produced is measured by hexokinase (HK) or glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) coupled reactions that convert NADP+ to NADPH, monitored spectrophotometrically at 340 nm.[4] The increase in absorbance is a measure of CK activity present in the specimen. Electrophoresis and various immunological methods are commonly used to analyze CK isoenzyme.[25] Electrophoretic methods help separate all of the CK isoenzymes. The isoenzyme bands are visualized by incubating the support (eg, agarose or cellulose acetate) with a concentrated CK assay mixture using the reverse reaction. The NADPH formed in this reaction is detected by observing the bluish-white fluorescence after excitation by long-wave (360 nm) ultraviolet light. NADPH may be quantified by fluorescence densitometry, which detects bands of 2 to 5 U/L. The mobility of CK isoenzymes at pH 8.6 toward the anode is BB > MB > MM, with the MM remaining cathodic to the point of application.[26] The discriminating power of electrophoresis also allows the detection of abnormal CK bands (eg, macro-CK). The disadvantages of electrophoresis include the long turnaround time, labor intensity, incompatibility with clinical chemistry analyzers in emergencies, and required interpretative skills.[27] Immunochemical methods apply to the direct measurement of CK-MB. In the immunoinhibition technique, an anti-CK-M subunit antiserum is used to inhibit both M subunits of CK-MM and the single M subunit of CK-MB, determining the enzyme activity of the B subunit of CK-MB, the B subunits of CK-BB, and macro-CKs. This technique assumes the absence of CK-BB (and other sources of interference such as macro-CKs) from the tested serum to determine CK-MB.[28] Because the CK-B subunit accounts for half the CK-MB activity, the change in absorbance should be doubled to obtain the measure of CK-MB activity. This results in a significant decrease in the analytical sensitivity of the method. If present, atypical macro-CK may result in falsely elevated CK-MB results. Owing to its low sensitivity and specificity, the immunoinhibition technique is supplanted mainly by mass assays of CK-MB.[29] In contrast with immunoinhibition, which measures the CK-MB isoenzyme by determination of its catalytic activity, mass immunoassays measure CK-MB protein concentrations.[30] Several mass assays using various labels are now commercially available and used for routine CK-MB determination. Measurements use the “sandwich” technique, where