subclavian artery The subclavian artery is divided into three sections by the scalenus anterior muscle. The first part gives off the vertebral artery, which supplies blood to the vertebrobasilar system and the circle of Willis. The other arteries that originate from the first part are the internal mammary artery and the thyrocervical trunk. The costocervical trunk arises from the second part of the subclavian and the dorsal scapular artery from the third part. The subclavian artery changes its name to the axillary artery after passing over the first rib and supplies the upper extremity. The abdominal aorta has three anterior unpaired branches to the viscera: coeliac axis (giving off the hepatic artery, splenic artery, and left gastric artery); the superior mesenteric artery; and the inferior mesenteric artery. The abdominal aorta also has three important lateral paired branches to the viscera: the suprarenal artery, the renal artery, and the testicular or ovarian artery. The abdominal aorta terminates as common iliac arteries, which further bifurcates to form internal and external iliac arteries. The internal iliac artery divides into the anterior and posterior divisions to supply the pelvic and perineal organs, while the external iliac artery courses below the inguinal ligament to form the femoral artery. The femoral artery supplies the lower extremity. The femoral and radial arteries are common sites of angiography catheter insertion. A limitation of angiography is its inherent limitations of obtaining images that are a lumenogram compared with intravascular imaging modalities such as intravascular ultrasound, particularly in regard to the identification of arterial calcification.[4] ## Indications **Indications for Angiography Based on Systems** _Neuroangiography_ - Extracranial disease indications include cavernous-carotid fistula, extracranial carotid stenosis, epistaxis, and subclavian steal syndrome. - Intracranial disease indications are subarachnoid hemorrhage without a history of trauma, cerebral arteriovenous malformations and aneurysms, cerebral vasospasm, acute stroke, and WADA test.[5] _Cardiovascular_ - Thoracic and abdominal aortic aneurysm and dissection - Diagnosis and treatment of coronary artery disease - Coronary artery aneurysms - Peripheral vascular disease including intermittent claudication and limb-threatening ischemia - Vascular malformations _Pulmonary_ - Pulmonary hemorrhage _Gastrointestinal system_ - Mesenteric ischemia - Arterial embolization in critical gastrointestinal bleeding _Renal_ - Renovascular hypertension - Dialysis fistula mapping and maintenance angioplasty _Reproductive system_ - Embolization of varicoceles - Embolization of ovarian veins in patients with pelvic congestion syndrome - Fibroids embolization _Oncology_ - Transarterial cancer therapy (e.g., chemotherapy and radiofrequency ablation) - Hepatoma - Colorectal liver metastases