are produced. In each rotation, a 2-dimensional image slice is constructed. Each subsequent image slice's thickness is decided on the operator's and the physician/radiologist's request but usually ranges from 1 to 10 millimeters. The gantry can be moved at the desired angle to accommodate the best cross-sectional image. When the desired number of slices is obtained, a scan is reproduced into the computer image and can easily be reproduced and stored. The image is created using pixels according to its radiosensitivity and is displayed using the Hounsfield scale units, which are compared to known tissue density. Water is 0, air is negative 1000, and bone is positive 400 to 2000. Intravenous iodine can be injected into the bloodstream to demarcate blood vessels and tumors and identify infectious processes.[13] Intravenous iodine-based or oral barium-based contrast is used to visualize the digestive system. The images can be computer-tacked together to produce a 3-dimensional image of the area of interest. The CT scans are obtained in the cranial direction, meaning from feet to head. It is important to note that current CT machines display the image opposite the patient's side as the image is produced as viewed from the patient's foot. Thus, the right side of the image is the patient's left side. ## Indications A CT scan is used for numerous clinical indications depending on the organs to evaluate.[14] The CT scan can be utilized in both inpatient and outpatient clinical settings. In an emergent setting, it can rule out serious illness. Indications for obtaining a CT scan are to help the physician diagnose, narrow the differential diagnosis, and confirm the doctor's suspicions. This modality can also be used for cancer screening, staging, and follow-up; its use helps to perform biopsies adequately and to assist during a surgical procedure. - Brain: tumors, traumatic or spontaneous hematomas, stroke, edema, skull fracture, calcifications, arteriovenous malformations, hydrocephalus, sinusitis, and empyema - Neck: tumors, benign masses, thyroid nodules, lymphadenopathy - Chest: tumor, pneumonia, metastasis, benign masses, pulmonary edema, pleural edema, tuberculosis, pulmonary embolism, traumatic injury to the lungs, esophageal rupture, ingested foreign body, fibrosis - Abdomen: primary tumors, metastases, abscess, ascites, cholecystitis, appendicitis, renal calculi, pancreatitis, obstruction, lymphadenopathy, foreign body - Spine: fractures, degenerative changes, stability, osteomyelitis, disc pathology - Bone: complex bone fractures, eroded joints, knee, tumors, osteomyelitis - Gyn: cyst, fibromas, tumors - Screening: colon and lung cancer - CT colonography/colonoscopy is used to