fetus. However, the study is done only if it provides a significant benefit. Using a spiral or helical CT scan, the radiation dose is reduced compared to a sequential CT scan.[57] A low-emission CT scan allows minimal radiation exposure with the benefit of early cancer detection in smokers. A CT scan is ideal for trauma cases as it can detect organ injury in a fast and reliable manner. The use of intravenous contrast highlights the vascular structures and can identify the cause of subarachnoid hemorrhages and spontaneous hematomas. For gunshot wounds, the CT scan provides details of the injury, which can not be done with an MRI due to the gunshot's metallic nature.[58] The CT scan has several advantages over magnetic resonance imaging. The CT scan can be used safely in patients with pacemakers and programmable pumps or shunts because it will not affect the device setting. Claustrophobic patients usually can not complete the MRI study; however, they feel comfortable inside the CT scan as the procedure is quicker and noiseless. ## Clinical Significance CT scans provide information as close to real-time that allows for the proper management of multiple diseases. Before the invention of the CT scan, patients with abdominal pain, fever, and elevated white blood cell count would have been taken to the operating room for an exploratory laparotomy to find the cause. CT's invention has provided physicians and surgeons with information to avoid unnecessary laparotomies and saved millions in healthcare costs. Ultimately, the patient benefit outweighs the risk of radiation and has remained a mainstay in the clinical diagnosis of disease. Technological advancements in the CT scan significantly augmented patient care by making it more efficient and cost-effective. The CT scan was the mainstay instrument to detect and follow-up tumors until the advent of the MRI and positron emission tomography (PET) scans. Tumors avidly enhance with the use of iodine contrast. The combined PET CT scan can detect and stage cancer patients.[59][60][61] **Brain** : for patients with hydrocephalus, the CT scan is the principal study to evaluate ventricle size and compare the size in cases of shunt malfunction.[62] For pediatric patients with headaches, loss of consciousness, or seizures, the CT scan is usually normal; thus, judicious use is encouraged to avoid radiation exposure.[62] For a patient involved in a traumatic scenario, the CT scan can show skull fractures, traumatic hematomas (epidural, subdural, and intracerebral), and edema in