Virchow triad, the following are the main pathophysiological mechanisms involved in DVT: - Damage to the vessel wall - Blood flow turbulence - Hypercoagulability Thrombosis is a protective mechanism that prevents the loss of blood and seals off damaged blood vessels. Fibrinolysis counteracts or stabilizes thrombosis. The triggers of venous thrombosis are frequently multifactorial, with the different parts of the triad of Virchow contributing in varying degrees in each patient, but all result in early thrombus interaction with the endothelium. This stimulates local cytokine production and causes leukocyte adhesion to the endothelium, promoting venous thrombosis. Depending on the relative balance between the coagulation and thrombolytic pathways, thrombus propagation occurs. DVT is commonest in the lower limb below the knee and starts at low-flow sites, such as the soleal sinuses, behind venous valve pockets.[25][26][27] A potential correlation between DVT and atherosclerosis (AS) has been proposed.[1] The endothelial dysfunction involved in the pathophysiological mechanism of DVT would potentially result in AS. Accordingly, a greater risk of subsequent AS in patients with DVT is predicted.[1] ## Histopathology In the venous system following acute thrombosis formation, an extensive remodeling process occurs. Neutrophils and macrophages infiltrate the fibrin clot from within the lumen of the vessel over weeks leading to cytokine release and, eventually, fibroblast and collagen replacement of fibrin. This remodeling and fibrosis can result in diminished blood flow long after the acute thrombosis resolves.[28] ## History and Physical The clinical presentation of acute lower extremity DVT varies with the anatomic distribution, extent, and degree of occlusion of the thrombus. Symptoms may range from absence to massive swelling and cyanosis with impending venous gangrene. Three patterns of thrombosis are usually recognized: isolated calf vein (distal), femoropopliteal, and iliofemoral thrombosis, and symptoms tend to be more severe as thrombosis extends more proximally (see **Video.** Popliteal Deep Vein Thrombosis With Partial Color Flow, Video). However, up to 50% of patients with acute DVT may lack specific signs or symptoms. [5][6] Postoperative patients are, in particular, more likely to have small, asymptomatic, distal, non-occlusive thrombi. When present, signs and symptoms of acute lower extremity DVT may include pain, edema, erythema, tenderness, fever, prominent superficial veins, pain with passive dorsiflexion of the foot (Homan’s sign), and peripheral cyanosis. Phlegmasia cerulea dolens, characterized by the triad of massive swelling, cyanosis, and pain, is the most severe form of acute lower extremity DVT and results from complete thrombosis of an