moderate, and severe 3%). - The risk of recurrence of DVT is high (up to 25%). - Death occurs in approximately 6% of DVT cases and 12% of pulmonary embolism cases within one month of diagnosis. - Early mortality after venous thromboembolism is strongly associated with the presentation of pulmonary embolism, advanced age, cancer, and underlying cardiovascular disease. ## Complications The following are the 2 major complications of DVT: - Pulmonary emboli (paradoxical emboli if an atrial-septal defect is present) - Post-thrombotic syndrome - Bleeding from the use of anticoagulants ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care Thromboprophylaxis strategies for hospitalized patients at potential risk for deep vein thrombosis include pharmacological and mechanical arms. In the pharmacological aspect, unfractionated and low-molecular-weight heparins, novel oral anticoagulants (NOACs), such as direct thrombin binders, including dabigatran, factor Xa direct binders, including rivaroxaban, and aspirin or warfarin should be considered.[20][48][49] It should be noted that the results from network meta-analysis indicate that NOACs are an effective treatment for thromboprophylaxis of VTE or VTE-related mortality) in the extended treatment scenarios. However, the complication with bleeding risk differs. Accordingly, apixaban was reported to have the most favorable profile. The comparison was published in the context of other NOACs, warfarin with endpoints of INR 2.0 to 3.0, and aspirin.[49][50][51] In the mechanical prophylactic arm, the following measures should be evaluated; - Graduated compression stockings - Intermittent pneumatic compression devices - Venous foot pumps - Electrical stimulation devices Still, mechanical devices should be applied in conjunction with pharmacological prophylaxis.[20] ## Deterrence and Patient Education Patients should be educated on the following: - Ambulation - Wearing compression stockings - Discontinuing smoking ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Deep-vein thromboses can occur in many settings and almost every medical specialty; failing to diagnose DVT can result in a pulmonary embolus, which can be fatal. DVTs also result in more prolonged admission to the hospital and drug treatment that can last 3 to 9 months, all of which add to the cost of healthcare. Thus its diagnosis and management are best made with an interprofessional healthcare team consisting of clinicians, specialists, nurses, physical therapists, vascular technicians, and pharmacists. The focus is on the prevention of DVT. In addition to clinicians, both nurses and pharmacists are vital in educating patients about DVT prophylaxis. Nurses are the first professionals to encounter patients being admitted to the hospital, and it is here that the prevention of DVT