unfractionated heparin is indicated.[47] - In patients who might later be subjected to reversal of thrombolytic therapy, it should be noted that reversal agents for DOACs are not universally available. - Since most anticoagulants have the potential to cross the placenta, the preferred anticoagulation therapy during pregnancy is LMWH. Moreover, the following guidelines address the required duration of treatment. - Prescribe low-molecular-weight heparin or fondaparinux for 5 days or until the international normalized ratio (INR) is greater than 2 for 24 hours (unfractionated heparin for patients with renal failure and increased risk of bleeding). - Supplement with vitamin K antagonists for 3 months. - In patients with cancer, consider anticoagulation for 6 months with low-molecular-weight heparin. - In patients with unprovoked DVT, consider vitamin K antagonists beyond 3 months. - Rivaroxaban is an oral factor Xa inhibitor that has recently been approved by the Food and Drug Administration and NICE and is attractive because there is no need for regular INR monitoring. - If the platelet count drops to less than 75,000, switch from heparin to fondaparinux, which is not associated with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Thrombolysis: The indications for the use of thrombolytics include: - Symptomatic iliofemoral DVT - Symptoms of less than 14 days duration - Good functional status - A life expectancy of 1 year or more - Low risk of bleeding The use of thrombolytic therapy can result in an intracranial bleed, and hence, careful patient selection is vital. Recently endovascular interventions like catheter-directed extraction, stenting, or mechanical thrombectomy have been tried with moderate success. - Compression hosiery: Below-knee graduated compression stockings with an ankle pressure greater than 23 mm Hg for 2 years if there are no contraindications - Inferior vena cava filters: If anticoagulation is contraindicated or if emboli are occurring despite adequate anticoagulation **Newer Drugs** Rivaroxaban, apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, and betrixaban are relatively newer factor Xa inhibitors approved for prophylaxis of deep vein thrombosis. The duration of DVT treatment is 3 to 6 months, but recurrent episodes may require at least 12 months of treatment. Patients with cancer need long-term treatment. Inferior vena cava filters are not recommended in acute DVT. There are both permanent and temporary inferior vena cava filters available. These devices may decrease the rate of recurrent DVT but do not affect survival. Today, only patients with contraindications to anticoagulation with an increased risk of bleeding should have these filters inserted. ##