of Mental Disorders Fifth Edition) and includes the presence of all of the following criteria: - Disturbance in attention and awareness develops acutely and tends to fluctuate in severity. - At least one additional disturbance in cognition - Disturbances are not better explained by preexisting dementia. - Disturbances do not occur in the context of a severely reduced level of arousal or coma. - Evidence of an underlying organic cause or causes.[11] Other features include alterations in the sleep-wake cycle, perceptual disturbances, delusions, inappropriate or unsafe behavior, and emotional lability.[12] Detection is the first step in evaluation and treatment. The syndrome of delirium presents over hours to days. A recent study estimated that delirium is unrecognized in up to 60% of cases. It is much easier to detect hyperactive delirium because patients often cause a disturbance in their environment. However, hypoactive delirium is often missed as patients are less disruptive. Caregivers may provide clues to the presence of hypoactive delirium with comments such as "They are sleeping more than usual," "They haven't eaten much in the last few days," or "I'm worried they are depressed; they just stay in their room all day." Several tools have been developed in a monitored setting to help detect delirium. One of the tools with the most widespread use is the Confusion Assessment Method (CAM). It has been validated with a sensitivity of 94% to 100% and specificity of 90% to 95% in the diagnosis of delirium, and it includes the following criteria: The presence of delirium requires features 1 and 2 and either 3 or 4: 1. Acute change in mental status with a fluctuating course 1. Inattention (reduced ability to sustain attention and follow conversations) 1. Disorganized thinking (problems with memory, orientation, or language) 1. Altered level of consciousness (hypervigilance, drowsiness, or stupor) The CAM has been adapted for target populations, including the CAM-ICU, which added nonverbal tasks for ventilated patients. Adaptations have also been made for the emergency department and those residing in nursing homes.[13] When evaluating a patient with delirium, it is important to speak with caregivers or other people who know the patient well. Many patients with delirium have underlying dementia, and knowing the baseline functional status of a patient is critical to understanding whether acute changes have occurred. Other important questions to ask while taking the history include: Have there been any medication changes? Drug-related causes account for