Negative prognostic factors include advanced NYHA classification, male sex, severe CHF, and renal failure. Individuals who have symptoms at rest and/or unable to exercise usually have the poorest prognosis. Peak V02 levels are now often used to predict mortality; those with high V02 levels tend to have a far better prognosis than those with low levels. With optimal medical therapy, patients with mild CHF can have a reasonably good quality of life. ## Complications - Congestive heart failure - Cerebrovascular accident - Valvular heart disease - Abnormal cardiac rhythms - Sudden cardiac death - Thromboembolism ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care All patients with dilated cardiomyopathy need intense education on the diet. Both salt and water restrictions are necessary to prevent symptoms. Patients should remain physically active or enroll in a cardiac rehab program. Regular cardiac rehabilitation can lower the mortality rate by 20%, relieve symptoms and reduce adverse cardiac events. ## Consultations - Cardiac surgeon - Cardiologist - Critical care specialist - Dietitian ## Deterrence and Patient Education Patient education regarding medication compliance, dietary restrictions and regular follow-up, is critical for management of dilated cardiomyopathy. ## Pearls and Other Issues 1. Unlike the past when all patients with DCM were empirically treated with anticoagulation, today the guidelines recommend the use of anticoagulants only in patients with atrial fibrillation, prosthetic heart valves, or known mural thrombus. 1. When there is progressive end-stage heart failure despite maximal medical therapy and the prognosis is deemed poor, one may consider a heart transplant. 1. All patients with DCM must be educated on the disorder and the importance of dietary restrictions in sodium and water. 1. Patients with DCM should be referred for cardiac rehabilitation as this has been shown to reduce all-cause mortality by 20-30% over 5 years, including improvement in symptoms. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Dilated cardiomyopathy is a progressive heart disorder with no cure. Eventually, most patients progress to heart failure and close to 50% are dead within five years. Today many treatments have been devised for the treatment of dilated cardiomyopathy, but for most of them, there is a lack of evidence to support their use. There is no longer any question that this disorder is best managed by an interprofessional team that specializes in heart disease. The three single most important factors that determine the prognosis are 1) diet, 2) medication compliance, and 3) an exercise program. The disorder