an increase in both end-systolic and end-diastolic volumes. The progressive dilatation of the ventricles leads to significant tricuspid and mitral valve insufficiency, which further lower the ejection fraction and increase the ventricular wall stress and end systolic volumes. Early compensatory mechanisms include an increase in heart rate and tone of the peripheral vascular system. However, these compensatory mechanisms lead to geometric remodeling of the ventricles and eventually this leads to worsening of the myocardial injury. At the same time, there is neurohumoral activation of the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system and an increase in circulating levels of catecholamines. In addition, levels of natriuretic peptides are also increased. Eventually these compensatory mechanisms become overwhelmed and the heart fails. Histologic examination or the myocardium typically shows nonspecific changes of fibrosis and hypertrophy. It also reveals myocardial injury with a marked infiltrate by inflammatory cells. [6] ## History and Physical The majority of cases of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) present between the ages of 20 and 60; however, DCM can be seen in children or the elderly. A large number of patients with DCM may have a long latent period where they are clinically asymptomatic. When symptoms do arise, they are the result of LV systolic dysfunction. In addition to a focused cardiac history and examination, a more thorough evaluation is recommended to identify any systemic disease or secondary causes. Classic symptoms include paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, orthopnea, leg swelling, and shortness of breath. Nonspecific symptoms of fatigue, malaise, and weakness also can be present. More severe cases can present with thromboembolic complications, conduction disturbances, arrhythmias or even sudden cardiac death. Physical examination findings are largely not specific to other causes of cardiomyopathy and consist of typical findings seen with congestive heart failure. Findings include crackles in the lung fields, elevated jugular venous pressures, peripheral edema, and an S3 gallop. Classically, the point of maximum impulse or PMI is displaced laterally. Tricuspid or mitral regurgitation murmurs are not uncommon as a result of ventricular enlargement and annular dilation. Neck examination may reveal jugular venous distension, A-wave, large V waves, and positive hepatojugular reflux. ## Evaluation Evaluation for secondary causes of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) always should be pursued prior to making the diagnosis of idiopathic DCM. Workup is focused on identifying any possible reversible causes. Recommended laboratory testing includes thyroid function tests, HIV serology, electrolytes, and iron studies (to rule out hemochromatosis). Urine toxicology screen and alcohol level