with DCM. Aldosterone receptor blockade with spironolactone or eplerenone also is recommended in patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) heart failure class II-IV and systolic dysfunction. Similarly, beta-blockade with carvedilol, bisoprolol, or long-acting metoprolol is recommended in all patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction without any contraindications. The addition of isosorbide dinitrate plus hydralazine also has shown to increase survival amongst those with advanced disease. Anticoagulation should be used for patients with artificial valves, atrial fibrillation, and known mural thrombus. Oral anticoagulants can reduce the risk of stroke, but the risk of bleeding is always present. Finally, patients with disease refractory to maximum medical therapy should be considered for cardiac transplantation and LVAD as a bridge or for "destination" therapy in those who are not candidates for transplantation. Implanted cardioverter defibrillators (ICD) for primary prevention of sudden cardiac death and cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) can be considered and are recommended by the heart failure guidelines.[8][9][10] A heart transplant is an option but the lack of donors is a major stumbling block. Indications for a heart transplant include refractory cardiogenic shock, ventricular arrhythmias, dependence on high levels of inotropes and dependency on an IABP or a ventricular assist device. ## Differential Diagnosis - Cardiac tamponade - Acute pericarditis - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - Restrictive cardiomyopathy ## Staging NYHA Classification of heart failure 1. Stage A: Having risk factors for developing CHF including hypertension, diabetes, CAD, and a family history of cardiomyopathy 1. Stage B: Asymptomatic heart failure; having left ventricular systolic dysfunction, prior MI, asymptomatic valvular disease 1. Stage C: Symptomatic heart failure: having dyspnea, reduced exercise tolerance, and fatigue 1. Stage D: Refractory end-stage heart failure with symptoms at rest despite maximal medical therapy and recurrent admissions ## Prognosis Overall, the prognosis of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy is guarded. Most patients eventually end up with chronic heart failure. Many become candidates for a heart transplant or an assist device which also adds more morbidity. The progression to heart failure depends on the ejection fraction and cause of the disease. Almost 50% of patients are dead within 5 years. Negative prognostic factors include advanced NYHA classification, male sex, severe CHF, and renal failure. Individuals who have symptoms at rest and/or unable to exercise usually have the poorest prognosis. Peak V02 levels are now often used to predict mortality; those with high V02 levels tend to have a far better