with DIC in approximately 1 in 5 cases, according to a 1993 study. [12][13][14][15] ## Pathophysiology Also referred to as consumptive coagulopathy, DIC involves the homeostatic imbalance between coagulation and bleeding. Tissue factor, which may be released into the circulation from vascular endothelial damage from trauma or certain cancer treatments, bacterial endotoxins, or cytokine exposure, activates coagulation factor VII to VIIa in the coagulation pathway. Via the extrinsic pathway, thrombin and fibrin are formed, forming clots in the circulation. As this process continues, thrombin and fibrin further impair the coagulation cascade through positive feedback loop stimulation and coagulation inhibitor consumption. Clotting factors, as a result, are consumed due to clotting, which can lead to excessive bleeding. Platelets may also become trapped and consumed during this process. Additionally, pathways, including the protein C system and antithrombin III, appear dysregulated in DIC. Furthermore, an increase in plasma activator inhibitor-1 can prevent the inhibition of fibrinolysis.[5][11] ## History and Physical Components of a patient’s history that may be consistent with disseminated intravascular coagulation include a recent history of severe infections or trauma as well as hepatic failure, obstetric complications, and malignancy. A remote history of deep vein or arterial thrombosis may also suggest DIC. Patients may experience bleeding from multiple sites, including the gingiva, areas of trauma or surgery, the vagina, the rectum, or through devices such as urinary catheters. Symptoms such as hematuria, oliguria, and anuria may be seen if concomitant renal failure from DIC results. Likewise, end-organ damage to the lungs may lead to dyspnea and hemoptysis if pulmonary hemorrhage or pulmonary embolism occurs, and a patient may have a mental status change if either thrombi or hemorrhage to areas of the brain arise. A patient could also experience chest pain if arterial occlusion of a coronary artery develops. Regarding signs of DIC on physical exam, obvious bleeding or frank hemorrhage in various areas of the body may be noted. Skin lesions, including ecchymosis, hematomas, jaundice from liver failure, necrosis, and gangrene, may also arise. Excessive coagulation may lead to widespread purpura, petechiae, and cyanosis. A patient in DIC may also experience acute respiratory failure or neurological deficits based on the location of bleeding or clots.[11][16][17] ## Evaluation No single history, physical exam, or laboratory component can lead to a diagnosis of or rule out DIC; therefore, a combination of subjective, objective, and laboratory findings should be utilized. Laboratory findings suggestive