perfusion despite a normal blood pressure reading. Anaphylaxis, likely the second leading etiology of distributive shock, can occur at any age regardless of prior history. Nut allergy and history of asthma have been identified as independent predictors of mortality in patients with anaphylaxis, and great care should be taken when monitoring this subset of patients.[10] ## Pathophysiology In most cases, inflammatory mediators play a major role in the development of distributive shock. Inflammatory cytokines released in both sepsis and toxic shock syndrome induce systemic vasodilation and capillary leak, as well as cardiomyopathy. The systemic release of histamine in anaphylaxis results in similar effects. Interactions between catecholamines and adrenergic receptors in the blood vessels are crucial in other causes of distributive shock. Both norepinephrine and epinephrine stimulate alpha-1 receptors on arterioles to cause vasoconstriction and regulate blood pressure. In the case of neurogenic shock, the sympathetic nervous system is compromised, leading to reduced catecholamine delivery to these receptors. Cortisol is a key regulator of the expression of alpha-1 receptors on the arteriolar surface, but this becomes compromised in patients with adrenal insufficiency. In effect, the factors leading to vasodilation and shock are multimodal and complex. This necessitates a careful history and physical examination to elucidate the underlying cause and a multi-system approach to treatment. ## History and Physical If possible, a careful and directed history should be taken directly from the patient. Often this is not possible, and information should be collected from the emergency management service, family members, or other witnesses of the inciting event. Symptoms of infection, like shortness of breath, cough, fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and dysuria, as well as an immunocompromised status and recent hospitalizations, should be noted as this information may point to sepsis. Additionally, identifying known allergies and a history of anaphylaxis as well as possible. Exposures to known allergens can aid the identification of the cause of the patient’s presentation. Review the patient’s medications, particularly steroids and anti-hypertensives, and illicit drug use to determine if overdose or intoxication could be contributing to the clinical picture. While the physical exam is unreliable in determining the source of shock, some findings can be suggestive of underlying etiology. Warm extremities can point to vasodilation as the cause of shock. A careful skin exam should be completed to identify a cutaneous source of infection such as cellulitis, ulcers, or abscess. Urticaria strongly suggests anaphylaxis. Always consider