perfusion pressure for both the heart and kidneys. Adequacy of tissue perfusion can be monitored with multiple modalities, including physical exam, Scv02 greater than or equal to 70%, and laboratory parameters including lactate and base deficit. The pressor choice will vary depending on the suspected etiology of distributive shock.[11][12][13] In septic shock, the initial pressor of choice is norepinephrine (2 mcg/min to 20 mcg/min), as this offers both alpha-1 and beta-1 stimulation, which will increase peripheral vasoconstriction without significantly compromising cardiac output. Vasopressin (0.03 U/min to 0.04 U/min) is a second-line agent which acts primarily as a vasoconstrictor by binding to V1 receptors. Attention should also be given to aggressive fluid resuscitation (Per the surviving sepsis campaign, 30 mL/kg in the first 3 hours), early antibiotic administration, and source control. For cases of anaphylactic shock, epinephrine is the pressor of choice, as it offers alpha-1 and beta-1 stimulation similar to norepinephrine but also provides beta-2 stimulation, which stimulates bronchodilation and stabilization of mast cells and basophils. Adjunct interventions will include both H1 and H2 antihistamines, steroids, albuterol, fluids, and potentially glucagon for those using beta-blockers. The shock that is unresponsive to both fluids and vasopressors may indicate adrenal insufficiency. In such cases, steroids can be given to the increased arteriolar expression of alpha-1 receptors. Hydrocortisone 100 mg is the typical treatment. In cases where vasopressor drips are not immediately available, and the patient has critically low perfusion pressure (particularly MAP less than 50 mmHg, the critical perfusion pressure to the brain), push dose vasopressors can be utilized. Epinephrine and phenylephrine are common agents of choice for this purpose. Soon after resuscitation consider a diet. Some patients may require tube feedings and others may require parenteral feeding. ## Differential Diagnosis - Anaphylaxis - CO poisoning - Adverse drug reaction - Neurogenic shock - Toxic shock syndrome - Cyanide poisoning - Cardiogenic shock - Hemorrhagic shock - Tamponade ## Prognosis The mortality from distributive shock varies on the cause and can range from 20-80%. Early recognition is the key to improved survival. Higher mortality rates are linked to: - Positive blood cultures - Advanced age - Elevated serum lactate or failure to clear lactate when labs are repeated - Infection due to pseudomonas aeruginosa - Alcohol use - Immunocompromised state - Poor functional status prior to the event ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Distributive shock is a life-threatening condition with multiple causes.