be an early sign of ST-elevation myocardial infarction. The morphology of the T waves can begin to broaden and peak within 30 minutes of complete coronary artery occlusion. It thus may be the earliest sign of myocardial infarction on the EKG. The T waves are broadened and peaked in the leads corresponding to the artery occlusion.[1] Tall T waves can also be signs of ventricular hypertrophy, depending on the distribution in the precordial leads. Additionally, T waves may be as tall as a normal variant. Due to this, it is crucial to compare all ECGs with elevations in T-wave morphology to a prior study. Elevated T waves may even occur as normal variation in young patients and athletes, typically in the precordial V2-V4 leads.[3] Inverted T waves are associated with myocardial ischemia. The inversion of a T wave is not specific for ischemia, and the inversion itself does not correlate with a specific prognosis. However, this is correlative if the clinical history suggests ischemia in the setting of inverted T waves.[4] Wellens syndrome is symmetrically inverted T waves in anterior precordial leads; these T waves suggest a severe narrowing of the left anterior descendent coronary artery at a proximal location (see**Image.** Wellens Syndrome). Recognition of this condition is vital to prevent a large anterior STEMI.[5] However, Wellens signs can be seen in other pathologies, such as pulmonary disease, so appropriate clinical correlation is imperative. Hyperkalemia is a condition that can cause peaked T waves. Depending on the degree of hyperkalemia, the peaked T-waves may range from a low amplitude to tall peaks to a sinusoidal pattern on ECG. The mechanism of the T-wave morphologies is through inhibition of the positively charged extracellular potassium on repolarization of the myocardium. In initial ECG changes in hyperkalemia, the T waves become narrow, pointed, and tall; these changes are seen in all leads on the EKG. As the hyperkalemia progresses, other EKG abnormalities may occur: decreased P wave height, a widened QRS, PR prolongation, and eventually, the ECG may become sinusoidal.[4][6] Several medications are indirectly associated with T-wave abnormalities. Antiarrhythmics, digoxin, and diuretics can cause electrolyte abnormalities, leading to changes in T-wave appearance. A key to differentiating ischemia/infarction from electrolyte-induced T-wave changes is the distribution of changes on ECG. Electrolyte abnormalities cause diffuse changes in the T-wave morphology throughout the ECG rather than specific to a coronary artery distribution. Diffuse, deep, symmetrically inverted T