is associated with lead placement and the heart's electrical pathways. **Abnormal T-wave Pathophysiology** T wave changes are secondary to electrolyte abnormalities in the myocardium since the ECG is representative of the heart's electricity. The outflow of potassium from the myocyte during repolarization is necessary to restore resting membrane potential. In disease states such as ischemia, the Na/K-ATPase cannot function to restore this gradient; when there is hyperkalemia, the electrochemical gradient for potassium to flow out of the cell is skewed, altering the repolarization phase. Abnormalities in the T wave on an ECG reflect these changes during phase 3 of the action potential. ## Histopathology Ventricular repolarization is depicted on the ECG in the form of a T-wave. Ventricular depolarization (phase zero) is the opening of Na channels; phase 1 is when these Na channels begin to close, and K channels open. The opening of Ca channels sustains phase 2 of the ventricular action potential. The repolarization (phase 3) is caused by the closing of these Ca channels and the opening of K channels. The potassium flows out of the cell due to its electrochemical gradient to restore the resting membrane potential near -88 to -90 mV. ## History and Physical As there are many causes of T-wave abnormalities, there are just as many potential presentations. A thorough history and physical and a rigorous medication review can provide essential information to suggest a specific diagnosis. For example, a history of prior episodes of chest pain with recent worsening in symptoms may indicate an ischemia component. A new or recently added medication such as digoxin may suggest possible drug intoxication.[10] The temporality of the presentation is another essential part of assessing the etiology of T-wave abnormalities. Acute onset of dyspnea with tachycardia after a recent surgery may suggest a pulmonary embolism. While the presentations above have clear-cut performance symptoms, it is important to remember that T-wave changes are often asymptomatic, as many causes of T-wave changes are non-pathological, such as normal variants or lead to misplacement. ## Evaluation An ECG is 1 aspect of a patient's clinical evaluation. Its assessment should always be integrated into a complete diagnostic workup. Metabolic panels and biomarkers of myocardial ischemia are needed in scenarios of suspected ischemia or electrolyte abnormalities. If cerebral T waves are seen, a non-contrast-enhanced CT scan is suggested to look for any acute bleeding or trauma to the central nervous system. If