Prior to any procedure, a time out is completed, where the name, date of birth, and procedure being performed is read aloud and agreed upon by all involved. ## Technique or Treatment When performing transthoracic echocardiography, the patient should be in a left decubitus position. This allows the heart to fall closer to the anterior thoracic wall, making sonography easier. The probe is placed on the skin at multiple positions, including parasternal long axis, parasternal short axis, apical four-chamber, and subxiphoid. The probe is positioned in the intercostal spaces to avoid the scattering effects of bone. While performing a TEE, the patient is in the supine position, with the head of the bed in a slight angle while and the probe is inserted into the mouth and advanced into the esophagus. A TEE bite block is inserted into the mouth, to allow easier transit of the probe. While performing any invasive imaging techniques, access is obtained at the femoral or radial vessels. ## Complications There is limited risk associated with TTE. There are, however, risks of esophageal perforation and bleeding with TEE. In those undergoing stress echocardiography, there is a risk of cardiac arrhythmias when administering medications to increase a patient's heart rate. Intracardiac echocardiography has an additional risk of bleeding as venous access must be obtained to insert the catheter.[21] Furthermore, there is a risk of puncture to the cardiac structures while the catheter is in the heart anatomy, including wall rupture, hematoma, effusion, or tamponade. ## Clinical Significance Transthoracic Echocardiography (TTE): When a patient presents clinically with dyspnea or chest pain, and there is a high pre-test probability that the shortness of breath is of cardiac origin, TTE is recommended. It is useful in identifying the cause, location, and severity of myocardial ischemia, atrial sizes, ejections fraction (EF), left ventricular hypertrophy, and presence of valvular disease.[22] An EF is a common piece of information that is available from a TTE, especially in those with systolic congestive heart failure (CHF), because it dictates the course of treatment. An important assessment of cardiac structure by TTE is the size and thickness of the cardiac structures. Left and right atrial size will help aid in the diagnosis of diastolic dysfunction, and right and left ventricular hypertrophy will aid in the diagnosis of heart failure. This is especially important when the diagnosis of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is suspected. Asymmetric hypertrophy of left