thickness of the cardiac structures. Left and right atrial size will help aid in the diagnosis of diastolic dysfunction, and right and left ventricular hypertrophy will aid in the diagnosis of heart failure. This is especially important when the diagnosis of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is suspected. Asymmetric hypertrophy of left and right ventricles is the bases of the diagnosis for HCM. Patients who are found to have preserved ejection fraction (>50%) CHF are treated mainly with diuretics (furosemide, bumetanide) for symptom management.[23] On the contrary, those who are found to have reduced EF (\<50%) CHF may be treated with diuretics, with the addition of beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, and aldosterone antagonist which have shown to have a mortality benefit. This benefit is not seen in those with preserved EF heart failure. The evaluation of the mitral, tricuspid, aortic, and pulmonary valves is another important indication of TTE. Patients who have a new-onset heart murmur, clinical suspicion for infective endocarditis, dyspnea, and near-syncope may have structural valve pathology including tricuspid, mitral, aortic, and pulmonary stenosis and regurgitation. TEE is more sensitive for the diagnosis of valvular pathology, although TTE is generally performed first, as it is less invasive.[22] Another aspect of TTE is assessing heart chamber pressures, and the most useful of these is right pulmonary artery pressure, which aids in the diagnosis of pulmonary artery hypertension. In the acute setting, bedside TTE can assess pericardial effusions, and aid in the diagnosis of cardiac tamponade, this may require immediate interventions, including pericardiocentesis. Bedside Echocardiography: The use of bedside echocardiography is widespread and allows a physician to obtain immediate information in the acute setting. A common use is an assessment of cardiovascular response while hydrating a hypovolemic patient, however, as mentioned above, this gives you information about pre-load, and further clinical assessment must be taken into account.[24] The use of bedside TTE for the assessment of pulmonary embolism has shown to have a specificity of 83% and sensitivity of 53%.[25] The most common "sign" used was the demonstration of right heart strain due to a pulmonary embolism. Due to its low sensitivity but high specificity, it may be an adequate rule-in test during critical situations at the bedside. Transesophageal Echocardiography (TEE): When a patient has a high index of suspicion for infective endocarditis, it is important to have a much clearer image of the valvular structure to identify valvular