greater detail in it's associated StatPearls.[28] Strain rate (STR) Echocardiography: TTE is able to detect wall motion abnormalities in those with ischemic or non-ischemic cardiomyopathy; however, when these abnormalities are sub-clinical, STR echocardiography is a more sensitive utility. Early detection in asymptomatic patients is an important use of STR echocardiography, especially in those with diabetes, amyloidosis, and muscular dystrophies.[15] Furthermore, it has been shown that STR imaging is sensitive enough to detect early cardiac injury secondary to doxorubicin-based chemotherapy.[15] Dandel et al. described the utility of differentiating between an athlete's physiological hypertrophy and asymptomatic HCM. This utility is important as HCM is known to cause sudden cardiac death in young athletes. A study from Belgium also described that the use of STR echocardiography was the superior method in identifying cardiac tissue changes and fibrosis in patients with HCM.[29] Another important utility is the assessment of cardiac viability. The augmentation of STR imaging with dobutamine has been shown to improve the diagnostic and prognostic evaluation of ischemia and post-myocardial infarction scar tissue formation.[15] It is important to understand that STR imaging can be applied to other forms of echocardiography; this includes TEE, TTE, and 3D echocardiography. It is an adjunct to improve visualization of wall motion defects. 3-dimensional (3D) Echocardiography: The use of traditional 2D echocardiography is limited due to foreshortened views of the ventricles and atria, and this can underestimate volumes.[30] 3D imaging allows the user to select images that are not foreshortened, which eliminates the geometric assumptions performed when assessing ventricular and atrial volumes. 3D echocardiography can further improve the visualization of shapes and spatial relationships between cardiac structures, as well as improve the visualization and function of valves and valvular structure.[30] Qiangjun et al. describe a case of hepatic metastasis to the tricuspid and pulmonic valve, in which 2D echocardiography only visualized severe tricuspid and pulmonary regurgitation. However, 3D echocardiography was able to detect fixed, retracted, and thickened valves during the cardiac cycle; this utility provided significant data to the practitioners to allow for the diagnosis of metastatic disease.[31] The left atrial appendage is the most common place where thrombi form in patients with atrial fibrillation, and in those with a contraindication to anticoagulation, a left atrial appendage closure device such as a Watchman device may be placed. Interventional cardiologists are able to use 3D echocardiography to simulate the procedure morphology prior to placing the closure device.[30] 3D