wall motion abnormalities. However, TTE is initially used to evaluate wall abnormalities; it is based on visual estimates, which may be subjective because it is operator dependant.[15] If TTE imaging is not clear or evident enough, ST and STR echocardiography may be utilized as an adjunct for a more accurate and objective evaluation of wall motion abnormalities. Three-dimensional (3D) echocardiography is used when a clearer image of cardiac structures, and how to relate to each other is required. This is used most often used with presurgical planning for interventional procedures, as it can prove improved views of valvular structures.[16] 3D echocardiography has also found to add prognostic value to wall motion abnormalities in those with ischemia and assessing viability in patients with myocardial infarction.[17] Contrast echocardiography has been studied extensively in the assessment of myocardial perfusion and has been found to be of independent prognostic and diagnostic benefit.[18] The injection of agitated saline uses air microbubbles as contrast, which are used to detect right-to-left shunts in patients who are found to have a CVA or for evaluation of pulmonary arteriovenous malformations. Further clinical indications include the assessment of wall motion abnormalities at rest, apical left ventricular thrombus, rupture, and aneurysm, apical hypertrophy, cardiac masses, and during perfusion imaging.[18] ## Contraindications Standard echocardiography does not have absolute contraindications, other than a patient's refusal. It is important to know that patient body habitus may limit the image clarity and amount of useful data that can be obtained. There are, however, contraindications to stress and transesophageal echocardiography. Some of the common contraindications to stress echocardiography include acute myocardial infarction within two days, severe symptomatic aortic stenosis, heart failure exacerbation, acute pericarditis, uncontrolled arrhythmias, hypertension (more than 200/110 mmHg), and unstable angina not stabilized medically.[10] Contraindications to transesophageal echocardiography include esophageal disease with strictures, tumors, acute gastrointestinal bleeding, and diverticula.[19] Further relative contraindications include hiatal hernias, facial or airway trauma, or chest radiation. Procedures with relative contraindications can be done when a full list of risks and benefits have been thoroughly discussed and agreed upon with the patient. Invasive imaging techniques have the same contraindications as the procedures needed to perform them, including cardiac catheterization. ## Equipment The equipment needed for transthoracic echocardiography includes an ultrasound machine with Doppler capabilities, a cardiac ultrasound probe, and an ultrasound gel. When undergoing stress echocardiography, ECG monitoring is required, and medications needed to increase heart rate, including,