involving cerebral vasospasm and overregulation have been proposed, though studies indicate that overperfusion, rather than vasospasm, might be more relevant to the onset of eclamptic seizures.[11] ## Histopathology Autopsy findings in eclampsia often reveal significant gross cerebral pathology, including extensive brain swelling, white matter hemorrhages, and tissue necrosis. Histologic findings observed in patients with eclampsia include perivascular edema, hemorrhage, hemosiderin deposits, small vessel thrombosis, and parenchymal necrosis. However, these histopathologic characteristics are not diagnostic of eclampsia, as they are also associated with other conditions involving systemic endothelial damage, such as atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome, hypertensive urgency or emergency, and antiphospholipid antibody syndrome.[11] ## History and Physical The classic presentation of eclampsia is generalized tonic-clonic seizures with no other underlying cause in a patient with a hypertensive pregnancy disorder. Generally, most professional societies use a blood pressure of 140/90 mm Hg or higher as the threshold for hypertension during pregnancy.[7] Additionally, eclampsia may be preceded by various symptoms, including visual disturbances, severe headaches, and epigastric pain, though these symptoms do not reliably predict its occurrence. Common visual changes include blurred vision, double vision, scotomata, flashes of light, and transient cortical blindness. Several studies have reported the most frequent symptoms associated with eclampsia were headaches, visual disturbances, and upper abdominal or epigastric pain.[2][11] While hypertension often accompanies eclampsia and is considered a distinguishing feature of the condition, it is not always present; some patients may develop eclampsia without severe blood pressure elevation. Conversely, not all patients with preeclampsia with severe features develop eclampsia.[10][11] Moreover, proteinuria, a standard marker of preeclampsia, may also be absent in some cases of eclampsia. Therefore, the clinical characteristics of eclampsia are not dependable indicators. Additionally, the absence of severe preeclampsia features in some patients with eclampsia challenges the common belief that preeclampsia will always worsen over time, eventually progressing to eclampsia.[2] Clinicians should be careful to consider differential diagnoses, including posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome, that present similarly to eclampsia and require careful management, including blood pressure control and long-term follow-up.[2][11] Please see StatPearls' companion resource, "[Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome](https://www.statpearls.com/point-of-care/78063)," for more information on this condition. Eclamptic seizures can occur before, during, or after delivery, with a significant number occurring during the antepartum period. Postpartum eclampsia, particularly late-onset eclampsia, defined as seizures occurring more than 48 hours after delivery, can still pose a significant risk. A large portion of these seizures occurs in the first 7 to 10 days