2-fold: (1) to allow for propagation of the electrical impulses from the atrium to the ventricle and (2) to delay these impulses to the ventricles to allow for the atria to empty. This is commonly referred to as an atrial kick and may account for up to 30% of cardiac output in young people and more as patients age. The P wave on the EKG represents atrial depolarization. The PR segment represents the delay at the AV node. The impulse then propagates down the bundle of His, which extends to the right and left bundles. Then, Purkinje fibers are activated, and a rapid, synchronized contraction of the ventricles occurs. This results in the QRS complex. After a small delay, the ventricles repolarize and prepare for the next impulse. This results in the T wave. The delay between depolarization and repolarization is called the ST segment. ## Issues of Concern Sinus rhythms originate in the SA node. The SA node is located in the right atrium and is the heart's natural pacemaker. The normal rate of the SA node is between 60 and 100. On EKG, sinus rhythm is represented by monomorphic P waves before each QRS complex and is regular. These are typically upright in the inferior leads and downgoing in aVR. QRS complexes are generally narrow unless there is a conduction delay. Sinus tachycardia (rate greater than 100 beats per minute) can be the first hint of an underlying pathology such as hyperthyroidism or pulmonary embolism.[2][3] Abnormal rhythms involving the atrium include atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, atrial tachycardia, wandering atrial pacemaker, multifocal atrial tachycardia (MAT), atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia (AVNRT), atrioventricular reentry tachycardia (AVRT), and inappropriate sinus tachycardia. In atrial fibrillation, the atria have no organized rhythm and no synchronized depolarization or repolarization. Instead, electricity is passed from 1 atrial myocyte to any surrounding repolarized myocyte, causing the atria to quiver rather than contract as a unit. The isoelectric line is lost; no discernible P waves are seen on EKG. QRS complexes are narrow unless there is an underlying right or left bundle branch block or if the ventricular rate is so fast that there is a rate-related bundle branch block (typically the right bundle). The ventricular rate is variable. This rhythm is classically described as irregularly irregular. Risk factors for developing atrial fibrillation include prolonged uncontrolled hypertension, obstructive sleep apnea, advanced age, a history of congestive heart failure,