ectopic beat is shorter than normal, the interval between the last and next sinus beat is typically shorter than 2 normal R-R lengths because of an incomplete compensatory pause. After all, the PAC depolarizes the SA node. Premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) occur when an ectopic focus in the ventricles fires. Since the impulse originates in a ventricle, it is slowly conducted through the ventricles, resulting in a wide QRS complex. Like other premature contractions, these occur during other rhythms. There is no P wave before the ectopic beat, and there is typically a compensatory pause such that the length of 2 normal R-R intervals is preserved. This is because the PVC does not depolarize the SA node, and the SA node continues to fire at its regular intervals. PVCs are typically benign and occur in healthy and unhealthy individuals. When PVCs occur every other beat, it is referred to as ventricular bigeminy; when they occur every third beat, it is referred to as ventricular trigeminy.[8] Junctional escape rhythms occur either when there is sinus node disease with a very slow or nonexistent atrial rhythm (sick sinus syndrome) or when there is a complete heart block high in the AV node. The AV node has its automaticity (typically 40-50 bpm) and can become the heart's primary pacemaker. Not uncommonly, in junctional escape rhythms, particularly when they are present due to sinus node disease, there is a retrograde P wave seen just before or during the QRS, as the AV node depolarizes the ventricle and atrium simultaneously. Ventricular escape rhythms typically occur when there is a disease in the AV node (ie, complete heart block). The intrinsic rate of the ventricles is 30 to 40 bpm. The QRS is wide because the complexes initiate in the ventricle. If there is concomitant SA node disease, there may not be P waves, but most often, there are P waves at a faster rate than the ventricular escape with no discernible relationship between the P waves and QRS complexes. Ventricular tachycardia develops from an ectopic ventricular micro- or macro-reentry focus. It can be monomorphic or polymorphic. P waves are present, but they are not associated with the QRS unless there is a capture or fusion beat, in which the atrial depolarization leads to brief depolarization of the ventricular myocardium before the ventricular focus can lead to depolarization. ## Clinical Significance The rhythm of the EKG