delay. Since the multiple foci are firing independently, these rhythms may appear irregularly. AVNRT occurs when 2 pathways within the AV node have varying conduction and repolarization rates. When the node is stimulated, typically by a premature atrial complex (PAC), when the slowly conducting pathway has repolarized, but the rapidly conducting pathway has not, AVNRT can ensue. When the slowly conducting pathway reaches the ventricle, the QRS is seen, and the nodal fast pathway then conducts back up to the atrium, creating reentry within the AV node itself. This cycle repeats itself and is seen on EKG as a regular, fast rhythm, usually about 150 BPM, with a narrow QRS complex. Retrograde P waves (P waves that occur after the QRS complex) are often seen only at the tail end of the QRS. This is often most easily seen in lead V1 as what is referred to as a pseudo R. AVRT utilizes a pathologic accessory pathway between the atria and ventricles to create a macro reentry circuit. This can be orthodromic (retrograde conduction is through the accessory pathway, and antegrade conduction is through the AV node) or antidromic (retrograde conduction is through the AV node, and antegrade conduction is through the accessory pathway). In AVRT, you typically see a normal, fast rhythm, usually around 150 bpm, with narrow QRS complexes. In AVRT, however, you often see preexcitation in the resting sinus rhythm EKG. Preexcitation, also called a delta wave, is due to a brief period of slow ventricular activation through the accessory pathway before the AV node releases the impulse to the bundle of His, thus leading to normal conduction and a narrow finish of the QRS. This also causes a shortened PR interval.[6][7] PACs are commonly found on EKGs. They are due to an ectopic focus within the atrium firing earlier than the sinus node. P wave morphology and PR interval for this premature atrial beat are usually different than the sinus P wave, though it may be similar if the focus is close to the SA node. While the RR interval between the last beat and the ectopic beat is shorter than normal, the interval between the last and next sinus beat is typically shorter than 2 normal R-R lengths because of an incomplete compensatory pause. After all, the PAC depolarizes the SA node. Premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) occur when an ectopic focus in the ventricles fires.