antiarrhythmics and other drugs, as an integral part of preoperative assessment of patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery, and for screening individuals in high-risk occupations and those participating in sports. Also, ECG serves as a research tool for surveillance and experimental trials of drugs with recognized cardiac effects.[4] Cardiovascular disease, as the number one cause of death, puts a great emphasis on healthcare providers developing skills and knowledge in interpreting ECGs to provide the best care promptly. Many healthcare providers find the advanced interpretation of ECG findings a complicated task. Errors in the analysis can lead to misdiagnosis, delaying the appropriate treatment. This activity seeks to provide a general understanding of the ECG mechanisms, interpretation techniques, and commonly encountered ECG findings. ## Anatomy and Physiology A basic understanding of cardiac anatomy and coronary distribution is essential to understanding electrocardiographic findings. The heart is a vital body organ and occupies space in the central chest between the lungs. Together with the blood vessels and blood, it constitutes the body's circulatory system. The heart is a muscular organ comprised of four chambers with two atria (right and left) opening into right and left ventricles via tricuspid and mitral valves, respectively. A wall of muscle called the septum separates all four chambers. The heart receives deoxygenated blood from the whole body via superior and inferior vena cava, which first enters the right atrium. From here, it transits through the right ventricle and then passes into the lungs via the right and left pulmonary arteries, where it is oxygenated. The oxygenated blood from the lungs pours into the left atrium through the right and left pulmonary veins, and from here, it is pumped by the left ventricle into the aorta to the rest of the body. The heart derives its blood supply from the coronary arteries that branch off the aorta.[5] The right and left coronary arteries lie on the surface of the heart. With considerable heterogeneity among the general population, different regions of the heart receive vascular supply from the various branches of the coronary arteries. This anatomic distribution is significant because a 12-lead ECG assesses these cardiac regions to help localize and diagnose ischemic or infarcted areas. Written below are the following regions supplied by the different coronary arteries. - Inferior Wall - Right coronary artery - Anteroseptal - Left anterior descending artery - Anteroapical - Left anterior descending artery (distal) - Anterolateral -