assesses these cardiac regions to help localize and diagnose ischemic or infarcted areas. Written below are the following regions supplied by the different coronary arteries. - Inferior Wall - Right coronary artery - Anteroseptal - Left anterior descending artery - Anteroapical - Left anterior descending artery (distal) - Anterolateral - Circumflex artery - Posterior Wall - Right coronary artery The heart is a mechanical pump whose activity is governed by the electrical conduction system.[6] It is essential to possess a strong understanding of the physiology of the cardiac cells as this will help the reader appreciate how the heart works and the implications of findings on the ECG. The heart is made up of specialized cardiac muscle, which is striated and organized into sarcomeres. These muscle fibers contain a single central nucleus, numerous mitochondria, and myoglobin molecules. Extensive branching of the cardiac muscle fibers and their end-to-end connection with each other through intercalated discs make them contract in a wave-like fashion. This mechanical work of pumping blood to the whole body occurs in a synchronized manner and is under the control of the cardiac conduction system. It is comprised of two types of cells, pacemaker and non-pacemaker cells. Pacemaker cells are located primarily in the SA and AV node, and it is the SA node that drives the rate and rhythm of the heart. The AV node gets suppressed by the more rapid pace of the SA node.[7] The specialized function associated with the pacemaker cells is their spontaneous depolarization with no true resting potential. When spontaneous depolarization reaches the threshold voltage, it triggers a rapid depolarization followed by repolarization. The non-pacemaker cells mainly comprise the atrial and ventricular cardiac muscle cells and Purkinje fibers of the conduction system. They consist of true resting membrane potential, and upon initiation of an action potential, rapid depolarization is triggered, followed by a plateau phase and subsequent repolarization. Action potentials are generated by ion conductance via the opening and closing of the ion channels. Knowing which ECG leads corresponds to specific arteries helps localize the obstruction in acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction or an age-indeterminate Q-wave infarction by observing predictable patterns on the ECG.[8] ## Indications The evolution of electrocardiograms from a string galvanometer to the modern-day advanced computerized machine has led to its use as a diagnostic and screening tool, making it the gold standard for diagnosing various cardiac diseases. Owing to its