and III) and augmented unipolar leads (aVL, aVF, and aVR). The precordial leads include V1 to V6. The limb leads view the heart in a vertical plane, and the precordial leads record the heart's electrical activity in the horizontal plane. The ECG represents a graphic recording of the electrical cardiac activity traced on the electrocardiograph paper.[17] The fundamental principle behind recording an ECG is an electromagnetic force, current, or vector with both magnitude and direction. When a depolarization current travels towards the electrode, it gets recorded as a positive deflection, and when it moves away from the electrode, it appears as a negative deflection. - A current of repolarization traveling away from the positive electrode is seen as a positive deflection and towards a positive electrode as a negative deflection. - When the current is perpendicular to the electrode, it touches the baseline and produces a biphasic wave. These concepts are easily applied to the heart while recording the ECG. Several types of ECG monitoring equipment are available, including continuous ECG monitoring, hardwire cardiac monitoring, telemetry, ambulatory electrocardiography, transtelephonic monitoring, wireless mobile cardiac monitoring systems, etc.[18][19] Furthermore, a duo of ECG and electronic stethoscopes have been designed into a portable, handheld device that can review ECG rhythms and intervals at the bedside for analysis. With the evolution of technology, there are electronic wristwatches that can also monitor the heart rate and rhythm and have proven to be of value in detecting atrial fibrillation.[20] However, the accuracy of these devices may be somewhat inferior compared to a 12-lead ECG. When prompted for abnormal findings, these require confirmation by standardized clinical testing available in the cardiology office. The equipment for performing a conventional 12-lead ECG includes: - Electrodes (sensors) - Gauze and skin preparation (alcohol rub) solution - Razors, clippers, or a roll of tape (for hair removal) - Skin adhesive and/or antiperspirant - ECG paper - Cardiac monitor or electrocardiography machine ## Personnel Any medical personnel who has received training on conducting an electrocardiogram can obtain an ECG, including a doctor, nurse, qualified technician, etc. Usually, it is performed by the technicians in clinics or hospitals and then interpreted by clinicians. Often, these findings are confirmed by a cardiologist in a hospital-based setting. ## Preparation Electrocardiogram requires special preparation. Before the procedure, a brief history regarding drugs and allergies to adhesive gel is necessary. The temperature of the room must be