technicians in clinics or hospitals and then interpreted by clinicians. Often, these findings are confirmed by a cardiologist in a hospital-based setting. ## Preparation Electrocardiogram requires special preparation. Before the procedure, a brief history regarding drugs and allergies to adhesive gel is necessary. The temperature of the room must be kept optimal to avoid shivering. The patient should be in a gown, and electrode sites identified. For good contact between the body surface and electrodes, it is advised to shave the chest hair and then apply the electrocardiographic adhesive gel to the electrodes. Any metallic object, like jewelry or a watch, requires removal. Limb and precordial leads should be accurately placed to avoid vector misinterpretation. Finally, the patient must lie down and relax before recording the standard 10-second strip. ## Technique or Treatment Electrocardiogram machines are designed to record changes in electrical activity by drawing a trace on a moving electrocardiograph paper. The electrocardiograph moves at a speed of 25 mm/sec. Time is plotted on the x-axis and voltage on the y-axis. On the x-axis, 1 second is divided into five large squares, each representing 0.2 sec. Each large square is further divided into five small squares of 0.04 sec each. The ECG machine is calibrated in such a way that an increase of voltage by one mVolt should move the stylus by 1 cm. The conventional 12-lead ECG consisting of six limbs and six precordial leads is organized into ten wires.[21] The limb leads include I, II, III, aVL, aVR, and aVF and are named RA, LA, RL, and LL. The limb leads are color-coded to avoid misplacement (red - right arm, yellow - left arm, green - left leg, and black - right leg). The precordial leads V1 to V6 are attached to the surface of the chest.[22] For the correct location, the "angle of Louis" method is an option, and the exact placement is as follows: - V1 is placed to the right of the sternal border, and V2 is situated to the left of the sternal edge. - V4 is placed at the level of the fifth intercostal space in the mid-clavicular line. V4 should be placed before V3. V3 is placed between V2 and V4. - V5 is placed directly between V4 and V6. - V6 is placed at the level of the fifth intercostal space in the mid-axillary line. - V4 through V6 should