interval, and then suddenly, a P wave is not followed by the QRS complex.[39] This sequence regularly repeats itself. Most patients with Mobitz type I second-degree AV block are asymptomatic. Mobitz type I AV block may occur in the setting of acute myocardial ischemia or myocarditis. It may also result in clinical deterioration if the resulting ventricular rate is inadequate to maintain cardiac output. Most patients with Mobitz type I second-degree AV block are asymptomatic and do not require specific intervention. Rarely patients with Mobitz type I block are symptomatic and demonstrate hemodynamic instability, and may require treatment with either atropine (emergently) or cardiac pacing. In type II AV block, there is a dropped beat without the progressive lengthening of the PR interval.[40] It follows the all-or-nothing phenomenon. It usually occurs below the AV node at the level of the bundle of His. It clinically signifies a severe underlying heart disease that can progress to third-degree heart block. When diagnosed, it usually requires prompt treatment with a permanent pacemaker. - Third-degree heart block is characterized by a complete electrical dissociation between the atria and ventricles, resulting in the atria and the ventricles beating at their intrinsic rates. Degenerative disease of the conduction system is the leading cause of third-degree heart block. A complete heart block may present in acute myocardial infarction.[41] Complete heart block may be reversible with prompt revascularization, especially in inferior MI. Lyme disease may be associated with a complete heart block and is potentially reversible with antibiotic therapy. In the case of irreversible or permanent complete heart block, a permanent pacemaker remains the mainstay of the treatment. - Bundle branch block results from the conduction block of either left or right bundle branches. It gets diagnosed by examining the width and configuration of the QRS complexes. The right bundle branch block is represented on the ECG by the presence of a widened QRS complex greater than 0.12 seconds, along with an RSR pattern in V1 and V2. Also, there may be ST-segment depression and T wave inversions and reciprocal changes in leads V5, V6, I, and aVL. Conduction system disorders can cause the right bundle branch block, but it may be present as a standard variant in specific individuals. The left bundle branch block is represented on the ECG by a widened QRS complex greater than 0.12 seconds, broad or notched R wave with prolonged upstroke in