give suspicion for a cardioembolic etiology. The appearance of an infarct in the fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) sequence indicates that the infarct has developed, at least partially, over 6 hours back. MRI scans can even accurately detect hemorrhagic infarcts by means of susceptibility-weighted imaging (SWI). Key limitations, however, are the relatively long duration required for the scan - a formidable contraindication in hemodynamically unstable patients - and ensuring compliance in claustrophobic patients. The increasing availability of "open MRIs" and "virtual-reality based systems" help alleviate the latter, but the former remains a major problem. - CT scans: CT scans are excellent imaging modalities for detecting or ruling out hemorrhage. Rapid imaging and ease of reporting, even in settings with limited expertise, remain its key redeeming features. That said, it shows limited sensitivity in detecting infarcts early on in their evolution. Large infarcts may exhibit subtle signs such as sulcal effacement or "the hyperdense middle cerebral artery (MCA) sign," although these are inconsistent features that may easily be missed. - Vascular status assessment: - MR angiography: Magnetic resonance angiography is a useful imaging modality, particularly in patients with renal impairment, as it does not require the use of intravenous contrast media. However, it is prone to various artifacts, including potentially overestimating stenotic lesions. - CT angiography: CT angiography remains the investigation of choice for evaluating cerebral vasculature; it's only drawback being that it is not an option in patients with renal impairment. **Serological Assessment** Although most standard guidelines recommend against instituting this as a routine practice, the evaluation of patients for hyper-homocysteinemia secondary to metabolic vitamin B12 deficiency continues to have a role in the evaluation of a patient of stroke.[9] This is particularly significant in patients known to be following a vegan lifestyle. ## Treatment / Management The cornerstone of the management of cardioembolic strokes involves the use of anticoagulants for secondary prevention. However, the exact timing of the initiation of anticoagulation remains a matter of controversy. The intention is to strike a delicate balance between the risk of recurrence on the one hand and the risk of a hemorrhagic transformation of the infarct on the other. Current guidelines propose an arbitrary deferral of anticoagulation for two weeks after the event, based on the extrapolation of trials based on heparin use.[4] Conventionally, vitamin K antagonists like warfarin are used for oral anticoagulation. Therapeutic response is monitored by serial assessment of prothrombin