primary cause of death in severe PE. Given the above pathophysiological considerations, clinical symptoms and signs of overt right ventricular failure and hemodynamic instability indicate a high risk of early (in-hospital or 30-day) mortality. Additionally, the early literature suggested that patients with underlying cardiac disease were at the greatest risk for developing a pulmonary infarction associated with acute PE, as poor collateral circulation, in combination with pulmonary thromboembolism, was thought to result in infarction.[18] However, recent studies suggest the opposite. Specifically, younger patients without cardiopulmonary disease were found to be more likely to suffer a pulmonary infarction secondary to PE. Experts hypothesize that longstanding local tissue hypoxia from chronic cardiopulmonary disease states leads to more robust bronchial vascular collateralization, protecting parenchyma from infarction.[7] The lung parenchyma receives its oxygen supply from 3 nonredundant sources: deoxygenated blood from pulmonary arteries, oxygenated blood from the bronchial circulation, and direct oxygen diffusion from alveoli.[19] A sufficient impedance from one of these sources can cause infarction and subsequent tissue necrosis. Inflammatory mediators from ischemic parenchyma can further limit gas exchange following the resultant vasoconstriction and bronchoconstriction.[20] When ischemia of lung tissue is not reversed promptly, infarction ensues. A unilateral infarct occurs in 77% to 87% of pulmonary infarctions, with the strongest predilection for the right lower lobe. Multiple studies show a stark predominance of pulmonary infarction in the lower lobes relative to the upper lobes, thought to be due to gravity’s influence on the unique relationship between alveolar, pulmonary, and bronchial arterial pressure.[7][21] ## History and Physical **Clinical History** A timely diagnosis of PE is crucial because of the high associated mortality and morbidity, which may be prevented with early treatment. Notably, 30% of untreated patients with PEs die, while only 8% die after timely therapy.[22][23] Unfortunately, diagnosing PE can be difficult due to the variety of nonspecific clinical signs and symptoms in patients with acute PE. The most common symptoms of PE include dyspnea, pleuritic chest pain, cough, hemoptysis, presyncope, and syncope. Dyspnea may be acute and severe in a central PE, whereas mild and transient dyspnea is observed in small peripheral PE. In patients with preexisting heart failure or pulmonary disease, worsening dyspnea may be the only symptom. Chest pain is a frequent symptom usually caused by pleural irritation due to distal emboli causing pulmonary infarction.[24] In central PE, chest pain may be from underlying right ventricular ischemia and needs to be