females.[14] PE complicated by pulmonary infarction occurs at a rate of 16% to 31%.[7] Overall, PE-related mortality is high, and in the United States, PE causes 100,000 deaths annually.[14] However, the mortality rates attributable to PE are challenging to estimate accurately because many patients with sudden cardiac death are thought to have had a thromboembolic event like PE. The case-fatality rates of PE have decreased, likely due to improved diagnostic methods, early interventions, and therapies. ## Pathophysiology PE occurs when a blot clot enters the pulmonary circulation. Multiple emboli are typically involved within the lower lung lobes more frequently than the upper lobes; bilateral lung involvement is also more common.[15] Large emboli tend to obstruct the main pulmonary artery, causing saddle embolus with deleterious cardiovascular consequences. In contrast, smaller-sized emboli block the peripheral arteries and can lead to pulmonary infarction, manifested by intra-alveolar hemorrhage. PE leads to impaired gas exchange due to obstruction of the pulmonary vascular bed, leading to a mismatch in the ventilation-to-perfusion ratio because alveolar ventilation remains the same. Still, pulmonary capillary blood flow decreases, leading to dead space ventilation and hypoxemia. Also, mediators, eg, serotonin, are released, which cause vasospasm and further decrease pulmonary flow in unaffected lung areas. Local accumulation of inflammatory mediators alters lung surfactant and stimulates respiratory drive, resulting in hypocapnia and respiratory alkalosis.[16] In PE, pulmonary vascular resistance increases due to the mechanical obstruction of the vascular bed with thrombus and hypoxic vasoconstriction. Pulmonary artery pressure increases if thromboembolic occlusion is >30% to 50% of the total cross-sectional area of the pulmonary arterial bed. Increased pulmonary vascular resistance increases the right ventricular afterload, which impedes right ventricular outflow and causes right ventricular dilation and flattening or bowing of the interventricular septum. Developing the right bundle branch block may increase the desynchronization of the ventricles. The decreased right ventricular outflow and concomitant right ventricular dilation reduce left ventricular filling, compromising cardiac output.[17] As a result, left ventricular filling is reduced in early diastole, reducing cardiac output and causing systemic hypotension and hemodynamic instability. Right ventricle failure due to acute pressure overload is the primary cause of death in severe PE. Given the above pathophysiological considerations, clinical symptoms and signs of overt right ventricular failure and hemodynamic instability indicate a high risk of early (in-hospital or 30-day) mortality. Additionally, the early literature suggested that patients with underlying cardiac disease were at the greatest risk