vascular resistance is due to surgically accessible disease and not from distal obstruction or a secondary arteriopathy, for all patients with CTEPH, lifelong anticoagulant therapy is recommended. Also, early referral for evaluation for pulmonary thromboendarterectomy is highly recommended. ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care Individuals who have survived PEs often demonstrate decreases in multiple functional deficits, including respiratory volume, exercise tolerance, and reported quality of life. Approximately half of the survivors have persistent symptoms reducing their physical capacity. Continuing studies are needed to identify risk factors for individuals more likely to experience significant deficits following PE resolution. The results of various studies have demonstrated different parameters for rehabilitation following PE and various program initiation times, ranging from weeks to months following diagnosis. These studies demonstrate minimal risks, with outcomes including a significant reduction in dyspnea and improvement in exercise capacity, functional mobility, and quality of life.[90][91] Rehabilitation services should work closely with the other care team members to identify deficits and develop a tailored care plan to address these deficits within safe parameters for each patient. ## Pearls and Other Issues A timely diagnosis of PE is crucial because of the high associated mortality and morbidity, which may be prevented with early treatment. Patients should be aware of the signs and symptoms of VTE and PE since the incidence of recurrent thromboembolism is high. Notably, 30% of untreated patients with PEs die, while only 8% die after timely therapy. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Effective management of acute PE requires seamless interprofessional collaboration to enhance patient-centered care, improve outcomes, and ensure patient safety. Pulmonary embolism response teams (PERTs) have emerged as an innovative approach to addressing the complexities of PE treatment. Composed of specialists in pulmonary medicine, critical care, cardiology, and cardiothoracic surgery, PERTs facilitate prompt diagnosis and timely intervention, ensuring that patients benefit from the collective expertise of diverse disciplines. Studies demonstrate that PERTs improve communication, streamline treatment efforts, and lead to more coordinated and effective care. In the larger framework of an interprofessional team, nurses, pharmacists, and advanced practitioners play pivotal roles alongside physicians. As frontline clinicians, nurses contribute critical observations and ensure the timely implementation of prophylactic or therapeutic interventions. Pharmacists, as experts in anticoagulation therapy, provide essential input on drug selection, contraindications, and potential interactions, ensuring the safety and efficacy of treatment. Open communication and mutual respect among all healthcare professionals allow for comprehensive and well-informed decision-making,