## Epidemiology Empyema of the gallbladder is estimated to occur in 5 to 15% of cases diagnosed to have acute cholecystitis. It is noted to be the more morbid condition when occurring in the older age group. There is a higher preponderance of males who develop this disease. Patients with an increased risk of acute cholecystitis, such as those with associated diabetes, immunosuppressant therapy, or hemoglobinopathies, have a higher chance of developing empyema of the gallbladder. Mortality is rare except in patients with advanced age, compromised immunity, or significant comorbidities. The incidence of postoperative complications regardless of the surgical approach is estimated to be 10 to 20%.[6] ## Pathophysiology The stagnant bile due to cystic duct obstruction in the background of gallstone disease can become infected. Severe infection is caused by pathogenic _Escherichia coli_ , _Klebsiella_ , _Streptococcus faecalis,_ and anaerobes such as _Bacteroids_ and _Clostridia_. Pus formation follows this infection, tightly filling the lumen of the gallbladder. In a tense and edematous gallbladder, necrosis of the wall and perforation may ensue if drainage or removal of the gallbladder is not performed promptly. If not treated rapidly, patients can develop generalized sepsis or gangrene of the gallbladder resulting in perforation of the gallbladder. Rarely a fistula between the gallbladder and duodenum can occur as a sequela of inadequately treated empyema of the gallbladder. Untreated cases develop symptoms of localized sepsis due to micro-perforation or generalized sepsis due to macro perforation.[7] ## Histopathology Pathological examination of the emphysematous gallbladder show marked edema and inflammation. The wall of the gallbladder may be covered externally by a fibrinous exudate. There is obvious pus that can be seen in the lumen of the gallbladder, which at times appears creamy. On culture, this pus may not always grow organisms if the patient has been on antibiotic therapy. Microscopic examination of the mucosa can reveal ulceration and evidence of inflammation. There may be associated mucosal hemorrhage. ## History and Physical Patients with empyema of the gallbladder have symptoms similar to acute cholecystitis. Tenderness in the right upper quadrant and a positive Murphy sign are the most common and predominant presenting symptoms. As the pathology progresses, there may be a palpable gallbladder detected which is acutely tender even on light palpation. With the worsening of the disease, high fever, chills, rigors, and signs of systemic sepsis follows. Patients who are on immunosuppressants or suffer from associated diabetes