drainage of the gallbladder should be the goal to prevent increased morbidity and the rare possibility of mortality. A broad-spectrum antibiotic, hydration, and optimizing the patient for surgery should be done ASAP. Although the conventional practice is to perform an open cholecystectomy, it is possible to achieve a laparoscopic removal of the gallbladder by experienced surgeons. Surgeons who undertake a laparoscopic approach should have a low threshold to convert to an open procedure when encountered with technical difficulties. The conversion rate from laparoscopic to open cholecystectomy is higher in empyema of the gallbladder than that in uncomplicated acute cholecystitis. The higher rate of conversion is attributed to reduced visualization or distortion of the anatomical structures in the Calot's triangle and increased bleeding due to inflamed friable tissue. An initial decompression of the distended gallbladder, either under radiological guidance or intraoperative laparoscopically guided, facilitates the more straightforward dissection of the gallbladder. Postoperative complication rates irrespective of approach, either laparoscopic or open, are higher than for cholecystitis for gallstone disease. Postoperative complications, including wound infection, bleeding, cystic duct stump leak, and common bile duct injury, subhepatic abscess, have all been reported. Subtotal cholecystectomy is rarely is performed when the surgeon encounters pericholecystic inflammation that makes a safe dissection of the Calot's triangle impossible. In older patients or those who are too ill to undergo surgery due to associated comorbidity, a percutaneous or transhepatic radiologically guided drainage is a temporizing procedure. This initial drainage procedure often leads to a dramatic improvement in the patient's condition, which then permits an elective cholecystectomy when the patient's condition improves.[9][6] Antibiotic therapy is usually continued until the fever subsides. ## Differential Diagnosis Cholecystitis Gallstones Biliary colic ## Prognosis If empyema of the gallbladder is treated promptly, the outcomes are good. However, individuals with advanced age, those who are immunocompromised or have diabetes, usually tend to have worse outcomes compared to healthy people. The rates of conversion from laparoscopic to open cholecystectomy are much higher in the presence of empyema. Further, the postoperative complications tend to occur in more than 2 to 20% of patients and include wound infections, bile duct injury, subhepatic abscess, cystic stump leak, renal failure, acute respiratory distress syndrome, and sepsis. ## Complications - Wound infections - Bleeding - Bile duct injury - Subphrenic abscess - Acute renal failure - Cystic stump leak - Sepsis ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care Following surgery and removal