the subpleural regions. [11] A biopsy is not required for the diagnosis of COPD. Histopathologic findings include an increase in inflammatory cells, structural changes, and lymphoid follicles. Acute exacerbation of COPD is an acute worsening of respiratory symptoms. Assessing severity is often based on the model developed by Anthonisen and colleagues which classifies severity by the presence of worsening dyspnea, sputum volume, and purulence. Mild exacerbations are defined by the presence of 1 of these symptoms in addition to one of the following: increased wheezing, increased cough, fever without another cause, upper respiratory infection within 5 days, or an increase in heart rate or respiratory rate from the patient's baseline. Moderate and severe exacerbations are defined by the presence of 2 or all 3 of the symptoms respectively. Patients may have acute respiratory failure and physical findings of hypoxemia and hypercapnia. Arterial blood gas analysis, chest imaging, and pulse oximetry are indicated. [1][8][12] ## Treatment / Management The primary goals of treatment are to control symptoms, improve the quality of life, and reduce exacerbations and mortality. The non-pharmacological approach includes smoking cessation and pulmonary rehabilitation. Annual influenza vaccination is recommended in all patients with COPD. Patients aged 65 and over should receive the 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) and the 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV23) at least one year apart. The PPSV23 is recommended for those aged 64 and younger with significant comorbidities (e.g., diabetes mellitus, chronic heart disease, chronic lung disease). [1] The classes of commonly used medications in COPD include bronchodilators (beta2-agonists, antimuscarinics, methylxanthines), inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), systemic glucocorticoids, phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) inhibitors, and antibiotics. Beta2-agonists work by relaxing the smooth muscle in the airways. SABAs and long-acting beta2-agonists (LABA) are commonly used in treatment. SABAs are used as needed to provide immediate relief. LABAs are typically used for maintenance therapy. Antimuscarinics work by blocking the M3 muscarinic receptors in the smooth muscle and therefore preventing bronchoconstriction. Short-acting antimuscarinic agents (SAMA) like SABAs provide a rapid onset of action and are used on an as-needed basis. Long-acting antimuscarinic agents (LAMA), like LABAs, are used as maintenance therapy. [13] Methylxanthines are also used in maintenance therapy, usually after LABA or LAMA treatment as additional relief. Methylxanthines work by relaxing the smooth muscle in the airways causing mild bronchodilation. The mechanism of action is unknown, however, it may be due to the inhibition of phosphodiesterase (PDE) III and IV. Theophylline is