are also used in maintenance therapy, usually after LABA or LAMA treatment as additional relief. Methylxanthines work by relaxing the smooth muscle in the airways causing mild bronchodilation. The mechanism of action is unknown, however, it may be due to the inhibition of phosphodiesterase (PDE) III and IV. Theophylline is a commonly used methylxanthine and when used in combination with salmeterol has shown to provide significantly greater improvement in FEV1 compared to salmeterol alone. [14][15] Inhaled corticosteroids are often used in combination with LABAs and LAMAs to decrease inflammation. A combination of ICS and LABA has been shown to be more beneficial than either of the drugs when used alone. Physicians and patients should be aware of an increased risk of developing pneumonia when treated with an ICS. Oral glucocorticoids are not indicated for long-term use and can have multiple side effects. These should instead be reserved for the management of acute exacerbations. [16][17] Phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitors work by inhibiting the breakdown of intracellular cyclic AMP and thus reduce inflammation. Roflumilast is a PDE4 inhibitor used for patients with severe disease and has been shown to decrease the number of exacerbations in this population. [18][19] Recent studies have shown that the use of azithromycin may reduce the number of exacerbations in patients with COPD. Azithromycin is typically prescribed as 250mg/day or 500mg three times weekly for one year. Physicians should use caution as this practice may promote bacterial resistance. Patients should also be monitored for QTc prolongation and impaired hearing. [20][21] Acute exacerbations of COPD can be managed in an outpatient or inpatient setting depending on the severity. The assessment of severity is discussed in the previous section. Mild cases can be treated in the outpatient setting with bronchodilators, corticosteroids, and antibiotics. For moderate and severe cases, inpatient management is indicated. Hospitalized patients often require oxygen and bronchodilator therapy in the form of a SABA with or without a SAMA. Long-acting bronchodilators are typically used when the patient becomes stable and ready for discharge. Oral corticosteroids may be used, however, intravenous corticosteroids have not shown to be more efficacious compared to oral and instead may cause increased side effects. Intravenous corticosteroids may be considered if patients have a contraindication to oral intake (e.g., aspiration risk or continuous BiPAP therapy). Antibiotics should be considered if there is suspicion for a bacterial infection. Oxygen therapy can range from a nasal cannula to mechanical