History and Physical COPD will typically present in adulthood and often during the winter months. Patients usually present with complaints of chronic and progressive dyspnea, cough, and sputum production. Patients may also have wheezing and chest tightness. While a smoking history is present in most cases, there are many without such history. They should be questioned on exposure to second-hand smoke, occupational and environmental exposures, and family history. Those with a confirmed diagnosis of COPD should be asked about previous exacerbations, nighttime awakenings, inhaler usage, and the impact of the disease on activity level. Patients should be questioned on their past medical history for other diseases such as asthma, allergies, and childhood respiratory infections. Those with liver disease, basilar emphysema, and a family history of emphysema should raise suspicion for alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency. Acute exacerbations of COPD usually present with increased dyspnea, productive cough, and wheezing. Patients with COPD may have multiple physical findings as follows: General [1] - Significant respiratory distress in acute exacerbations - Muscle wasting Lungs [5] - Accessory respiratory muscle use - Prolonged expiration - Wheezing - Pursed-lip breathing Chest [5] - Increased anterior-posterior chest wall diameter (barrel chest) Skin [6] - Central cyanosis when arterial oxygenation is low Extremities [1] - Digital clubbing - Lower extremity edema in right heart failure ## Evaluation COPD is often evaluated in patients with relevant symptoms and risk factors. The diagnosis is confirmed by spirometry. Other tests may include a 6-minute walk test, laboratory testing, and radiographic imaging. [1] Pulmonary function testing (PFT) is essential in the diagnosis, staging, and monitoring of COPD. Spirometry is performed before and after administering an inhaled bronchodilator. Inhaled bronchodilators may be a short-acting beta2-agonist (SABA), short-acting anticholinergic, or a combination of both. A ratio of the forced expiratory volume in one second to forced vital capacity (FEV1/FVC) less than 0.7 confirms the diagnosis of COPD. Patients with a significantly reduced FEV1 and signs of dyspnea should be evaluated for oxygenation with pulse oximetry or arterial blood gas analysis. [7][8] The Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) is a program initiated by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI). The program is recognized worldwide for providing updated and detailed reports on the recommendations for the diagnosis and management of COPD. The GOLD recommendations are often used to assess disease severity and choice of therapy. [1]