or sinus irrigation, not tap water. Measures to prevent GAE and keratitis due to _Acanthamoeba_ include: - Replace contacts as prescribed. - Remove lenses before activity involving contact with water. - Wash hands with soap before handling contact lenses and clean lenses as instructed by the manufacturer. ## Pearls and Other Issues Other important information to note includes the following: - Patients with PAM typically have a history of swimming, diving, bathing, or playing in warm, generally stagnant freshwater during the previous 1 to 9 days. - GAE presents as a subacute to chronic disease process with weeks to months of progressive headache, low-grade fevers, visual disturbances, behavioral abnormalities, and focal neurologic deficits. - Two patterns of clinical presentation have been described with _Balamuthia mandrillaris._ While some patients present with an initial skin lesion followed by neurologic manifestations in weeks or months, others present with CNS involvement. The skin lesion consists of an asymptomatic nonulcerated plaque, most commonly on the central face or the knee area. Wide resection of the skin may prove to be therapeutic. - A definitive diagnosis of PAM is made by observation of motile trophozoites on centrifuged CSF wet mount preparation. - Approximately 11 survivors of PAM have been reported in the literature.[16][17] ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Amebic encephalitis is an exceptionally rare and highly lethal central nervous system infection caused by free-living amoebae found in freshwater, lakes, and rivers. There are two types of amebic encephalitis: primary amebic meningoencephalitis and granulomatous amebic encephalitis. The initial symptoms of PAM are indistinguishable from bacterial meningitis, while the symptoms of GAM can mimic a brain abscess or meningitis. These infections are almost always fatal. The high mortality rate is due to a lack of optimal treatment, the rarity of the disease, and delays in diagnosis. Clinicians working in communities with potential exposure to large stagnant bodies of freshwater should play a role in educating patients about the risk and providing information about how to mitigate the risk. If the disease is being considered in the differential diagnosis of a patient, early laboratory evaluation and emergent consultations with infectious disease specialists, neurologists, and neurosurgeons are recommended to facilitate prompt diagnosis and treatment. Patients with amebic meningoencephalitis may require monitoring in the intensive care unit. A hypothermia protocol may be considered as this has been shown to increase survival. An interprofessional healthcare team, including intensivists, infectious disease specialists, nurses,