infective endocarditis is around 20%.[9] Risk factors for increased mortality include advanced age, infective endocarditis caused by _S. Aureus P. aeruginosa, Enterobacteriaceae_ , or fungi, a heavy burden of comorbidities (end-stage renal disease requiring hemodialysis, prosthetic valve endocarditis, severe heart failure, stroke, abscess, severe immunosuppression due to HIV infection, and development of perivalvular extension or a myocardial abscess).[9] Embolic events to the brain are a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with infective endocarditis. In a study of 1437 consecutive patients with left-sided endocarditis, the incidence of stroke in patients receiving appropriate antimicrobial therapy was 4.82 per 1000 patient days in the first week of therapy and fell to 1.71 per 1000 patient days in the second week suggesting that early initiation of antimicrobial therapy dramatically reduces the risk of stroke.[11] ## Complications Aortic valve endocarditis complications include congestive heart failure due to valve damage, annular abscess, and mycotic aneurysms of the sinus of Valsalva which can result in pericarditis, hemopericardium, cardiac tamponade, or fistulas to the cardiac chambers.[12] Involvement of the conduction system may cause atrioventricular blocks. Neurologic complications include thromboembolic events and mycotic aneurysms from septic embolization of vegetations.[12] Systemic embolization to other organs, including the liver, kidneys, and spleen results in end-organ damage. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Early recognition and timely management of infective endocarditis are imperative to ensure optimal clinical outcomes. Patients should receive education regarding the prognosis, risk factors, signs and symptoms, and management aspects of infective endocarditis. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Aortic valve infective endocarditis is a life-threatening condition with a poor prognosis. Despite technological advances over the past few decades, mortality remains high. Early recognition and prompt institution of antimicrobial therapy can help optimize patient outcomes. an interprofessional approach involves physicians, specialists, specialty-trained nurses, physician assistants, and pharmacists, all collaborating across disciplines to achieve optimal patient results. [Level 5] It is vital that pharmacists, nurses, physician assistants, and primary care clinicians be aware of the latest guidelines for the prevention of subacute bacterial endocarditis. At least 25% of cases are a consequence of an invasive procedure that causes bacteremia. This antibiotic prophylaxis is vital in some patients. In addition, the patient has to be educated about maintaining good oral hygiene. If there is any doubt about antibiotic prophylaxis, a cardiology consult should be sought. Nurses should be vigilant about central lines as they are also a cause of bacteremia.