to 800 - Endocardial involvement (presence of new valvular regurgitation) - Presence of vegetation, abscess, or dehiscence (worsening or a change of pre-existing murmur does not meet criteria) Minor clinical criteria are as follows\[5\]: - Predisposing heart condition or use of intravenous drug use - Fever with body temperature greater than 38 degrees C (100.4 degrees F) - Vascular phenomena: arterial emboli, septic pulmonary infarcts, mycotic aneurysm, intracranial hemorrhage, conjunctival hemorrhages, and Janeway lesion - Immunologic phenomena: glomerulonephritis, Osler nodes, Roth spots, rheumatoid factor, and - Positive blood culture that does not meet the major criteria Possible infective endocarditis criteria are when there are one major criterion and one minor criterion or three minor criteria present. Rejected infective endocarditis is defined when there is likely an alternative diagnosis, or there is no pathological evidence of IE with fewer than 4 days of antibiotic therapy or there is the resolution of clinical symptoms with fewer than 4 days of antibiotic therapy.[5] It is important to note that prior antibiotic therapy may mask the histopathological evidence of infective endocarditis. Vegetation on an echocardiogram is an oscillating intracardiac mass on the valve or supporting structures, in the path of regurgitant jets. The presence of abscess or partial dehiscence of the prosthetic valve also fulfills echocardiographic criteria of infective endocarditis. A transthoracic echocardiogram should be validated by transesophageal echocardiogram in the evaluation of patients with suspected infective endocarditis whenever indicated. Significant echocardiographic findings include: - Myocardial abscess - New-onset valvular regurgitation - Oscillating intracardiac mass on a valve - Partial dehiscence of a prosthetic valve The ECG may show a conduction block or delay in about 10% of patients. A new conduction block usually indicates the involvement of the septum and is a poor prognostic sign. CT of the head is done in patients who exhibit neurological deficits. ## Treatment / Management The American Heart Association published its updated guidelines for infective endocarditis in 2015.[8] In those guidelines, specific recommendations are for the following\[8\]: - Native valve highly susceptible (MIC less than or equal to 0.12 mcg/ml) viridans group streptococci (VGS) infective endocarditis - VGS and _S. gallolyticus_ (_bovis_) with MIC greater than 0.12 to less than 0.5 mcg/ml - A defective and Granulicatella species, and VGS with penicillin MIC greater than or equal to 0.5 mcg/ml - VGS or _S. gallolyticus_ involving prosthetic material - Staphylococci, Staphylococci involving prosthetic material - Enterococci, HACEK