symptoms of congestive heart failure, left-sided infective endocarditis caused by _Staphylococcus aureus_ , fungal, or other highly resistant microorganisms, infective endocarditis with conduction defects or heart block, annular or aortic abscess, persistent infection 5 to 7 days after initiation of antibiotic therapy [10]. For native valve endocarditis, eradication of the infected valvular tissue with subsequent valve repair or replacement is the primary therapy. Indications for Surgery - CHF that is refractory to treatment - Fungal endocarditis - Recurrent septic emboli despite antibiotic treatment - Persistent sepsis despite antibiotic treatment - Rupture sinus of Valsalva aneurysm - Conduction defect due to a septal abscess There are several options for treating aortic valve endocarditis depending on the surgeon's experience and preferences. In the past, cryopreserved homografts were often utilized and had good outcomes. But these homografts have fallen out of favor because of recalcification and the need for another surgery. In addition, the implantation of a homograft does require skill. Today, aortic valve endocarditis is managed with the use of biological stentless valves. These valves have a long shelf life and are available in many sizes. However, they still require some technical skills to get the best outcomes. For native valve endocarditis limited to the leaflets/cusps, repair should be performed whenever feasible (Class I) [10]. For prosthetic valve endocarditis that spares the aortic root and annulus after radical resection, implantation of a new prosthetic valve (tissue or mechanical) is reasonable (Class IIa).[10]However, if the annulus is destroyed or if the infection has spread beyond the aortic root, then reconstruction and the use of an allograft or a biologic tissue root is preferable to a prosthetic valved conduit (Class IIa).[10] ## Differential Diagnosis The principal differential diagnoses for infective endocarditis include the following: 1. Nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis which was formerly known as marantic endocarditis - causes small sterile vegetations on the valve leaflets; predisposing conditions for this include certain malignancies and hypercoagulable states 1. Libman–Sacks endocarditis: causes verrucous vegetations and is associated with systemic lupus erythematosus 1. Vasculitis 1. Connective tissue disease 1. Fever of unknown origin ## Prognosis The in-hospital mortality for infective endocarditis is around 20%.[9] Risk factors for increased mortality include advanced age, infective endocarditis caused by _S. Aureus P. aeruginosa, Enterobacteriaceae_ , or fungi, a heavy burden of comorbidities (end-stage renal disease requiring hemodialysis, prosthetic valve endocarditis, severe heart failure, stroke, abscess, severe immunosuppression due to HIV infection, and