nitroprusside reagent does not measure beta-hydroxybutyrate but detects acetone and acetoacetate. Serum levels of beta-hydroxybutyrate are typically greater than 3 mmol/L in EDKA (normal values less than 0.5 mmol/L). Consider CBC with differential white blood cell count and blood cultures if an infection is on the differential. Serum osmolality, to assess for an osmolar gap and toxic alcohols, should be sent to rule out toxic alcohol ingestion when suspected in any patient with severe, unexplained anion gap metabolic acidosis. Close attention should be paid to the anion gap to help narrow direct diagnosis, workup, and management. As described previously, the patient has normoglycemia (capillary blood glucose less than 250 mg/dL) in the presence of metabolic acidosis (pH less than 7.3) and a total decreased serum bicarbonate (less than 18 mEq/L). Serum and urine ketones must be elevated to make the diagnosis of EDKA. Lactic acid may be elevated but should not account entirely for the elevation in the anion gap. Leukocytosis may be present in the case of a concurrent infection; however, it is nonspecific and could also be due to hemoconcentration or stress, among other causes. Potassium levels vary, but great attention should be paid to the level before starting therapy, as total body potassium is usually depleted. Hypomagnesemia and hypophosphatemia can be seen in starvation due to decreased total intake and increased losses. Mild hyponatremia may also be seen but is generally less severe than the “pseudo-hyponatremia” seen in profound hyperglycemic states. ## Treatment / Management Initial management should be directed toward fluid resuscitation, as patients usually present as profoundly dehydrated. Begin with the administration of isotonic saline or lactated Ringer solution. The American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends 1 to 1.5 L/hr isotonic fluids during the first 1 to 2 hours. Continuous insulin infusion should follow fluid replacement, contingent on serum potassium levels greater than 3.3 mEq/L, starting at a rate of 0.05 to 0.1 U/kg/hr. In contrast to DKA management, since serum glucose in EDKA is less than 250 mg/dL, dextrose 5% should initially be added to the fluids to avoid hypoglycemia and hasten clearance of ketosis.[34] Consider increasing the amount of dextrose to 10% if ketoacidosis persists on D5%.[27][35][27] Potassium should also be carefully monitored as total body potassium levels are likely to be depleted, and IV supplementation of potassium and other electrolytes may be needed. Blood glucose levels should be checked hourly, and electrolytes should