edema, coma, seizures, infection, thrombosis, myocardial infarction, and death.[38] Maternal EDKA can increase the rate of fetal (up to 9%) and maternal mortality.[39][40] ## Consultations Consider consultation with a critical care intensivist and endocrinologist for severe cases. Pregnant women suffering from EDKA benefit from involvement with obstetric and maternal-fetal medicine consultants. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Vigilant monitoring of capillary or urine ketones by patients with diabetes, especially during episodes of nausea or illness, can diagnose EDKA before it becomes severe. Although the SGLT2 inhibitors have been shown to have extra benefits on cardiovascular and kidney health, they are not recommended to be used in managing patients with T1DM because of the high risk of EDKA.[41][42][43] ## Pearls and Other Issues Key facts to keep in mind about euglycemic diabetic ketoacidosis are as follows: - Successful diagnosis depends on early screening with serum or urine ketones, even when serum glucose is normal, whenever EDKA is suspected. - After volume expansion with crystalloid, the foundation of therapy is a combination of dextrose (5 to 10%) and insulin (0.05 to 0.1 u/kg/hr) infusion until acidosis resolves. - Insulin infusion should not be avoided due to normal glucose levels, but it is essential to successful treatment. - Ketosis does not resolve with intravenous crystalloid hydration alone. - SGLT2 inhibitor treatment should be discontinued as soon as EDKA is diagnosed. - Sodium bicarbonate infusion is not indicated. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Euglycemic DKA is becoming more prevalent with the appearance of the new SGLT2 inhibitors. However, it is important to recognize the variety of etiologies of a potentially fatal condition. Early diagnosis and initiation of treatment can significantly improve morbidity and mortality. In patients presenting with euglycemic anion gap acidosis, great care is necessary to rule out other causes, including sepsis, toxic alcohol ingestion, and alcoholic ketoacidosis, among others. The primary treatments are early IV crystalloid and prompt initiation of insulin and dextrose infusion. Treatment requires a team of interprofessional healthcare workers consisting of clinicians (MDs, DOs, NPS, or PAs), possibly including consultation with a critical care intensivist and an endocrinologist. Emergency and critical care nurses monitor patients, administer ordered treatments, and report changes to physicians to optimize treatment. The clinicians can also consult with the pharmacy regarding appropriate interventions and have them run a full medication reconciliation to check for drug interactions or agents that may contribute to EDKA. All interprofessional team