short interval between fever onset and the seizure may indicate a higher likelihood of recurrent febrile seizures. On the other hand, features associated with complex febrile seizures do not necessarily increase the risk of recurrence. Approximately 1% to 2% of children with simple febrile seizures, which is only slightly higher than the general population of .5% to .9%, may develop epilepsy later on. However, children with a history of complex febrile seizure, febrile seizure at an earlier age, prolonged febrile seizure, abnormal neurodevelopment, abnormal EEG, and a family history of epilepsy have an estimated 2% to 10% risk of developing epilepsy, depending now how many risk factors are present.[24] Notably, a single febrile seizure episode does not appear to be linked to learning disabilities, lower intelligence, behavioral problems, or executive functioning. However, in those with recurrent febrile seizures, an increased risk of delayed vocabulary development may be present.[5] ## Complications Although most febrile seizures are self-limited and have an excellent prognosis, rare complications may occur, including the following: - Unexpected death - Subsequent epilepsy - Encephalopathy - Autism spectrum disorder - Intellectual disability - Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder - Tourette syndrome - Allergic rhinitis - Asthma ## Consultations Consultation with specialized clinicians is typically necessary. These specialists typically include the following: - Pediatricians - Neonatologists - Neurologists ## Pearls and Other Issues Simple febrile seizures usually have a single episode of generalized tonic-clonic movements, often involving facial and respiratory muscles, lasting less than 15 minutes with a short period of postictal drowsiness. Conversely, complex febrile seizures are characterized by focal seizures, usually limited to one side of the body, lasting 15 minutes or more, that can recur within 24 hours. Complex febrile seizures are frequently followed by postictal weakness or paralysis on one side of the body (ie, Todd paralysis). Other associated symptoms for both febrile seizure types include loss of consciousness, foaming at the mouth, shortness of breath, and cyanosis. Patients who have a presentation and clinical features consistent with simple febrile seizures do not need further diagnostic studies due to the benign nature of this type of febrile seizure. However, if a patient's history is consistent with a complex febrile seizure, a thorough evaluation is recommended, which usually involves ruling out any structural or infectious causes and obtaining an electroencephalogram (EEG). Laboratory studies (eg, complete blood count, complete metabolic profile, and urinalysis) should also be performed if a patient has