the needle. Hence, to direct the needle in the desired direction notch should be on the opposite side. We insert the needle in the inter-laminar space, an oval area of radiolucency on either side of the spinous process. The entry site should be directly above the inter-laminar area and marked with a narrow tip surgical pen; if performed accurately, correct marking of the entry site dramatically reduces the procedure time and patient discomfort. We insert the needle with the notch on the opposite to the physician's side.Bracing hands against the patients' back during the needle advancement is essential to avoid patient movement and sudden jerks. We initially advance the needle every 1 cm before checking for the needle tip and the hub position on fluoroscopy and avoiding parallax as much as possible. Then we rotate the needle by 1/4th circle to ensure that the needle traverses in a straight line. The prone approach visualizes the entire length of the needle trajectory on the cross-table lateral view. So we do not hesitate to obtain a lateral radiograph whenever a biplane camera is not available. The deviation of the needle path from the desired course can result in repeat attempts and delays and patient discomfort. Once the needle crosses the paraspinal muscles, we check the needle positioning every mm while the needle is advancing through ligamentum flavum. We frequently check for the CSF flow by removing the stylet. We recommend keeping the bevel parallel to the long axis of the nerves while penetrating the dura. After the dural puncture, you get the sensation of giving off. Then rotating the needle perpendicular to the nerves eases the CSF flow. It is important to remember that the stylet should be within the needle every time before advancing or rotating. Immediately deep into the ligamentum flavum, there is the thecal sac with variable amounts of epidural fat; hence the needle can quickly enter the thecal sac and impress the nerve, causing shooting pain in the extremity. We ask patients to speak up if they feel radiating focal sharp pain shooting down the extremity when the needle touches the nerve root. The pain should stop immediately after withdrawing the needle by 1 mm, and CSF should flow. If the pain does not subside even after removing for a few minutes, we recommend using a different approach. The CSF pressure measured in a lateral decubitus position ranges