better tolerate this position; however, the trajectory of the needle is difficult to assess on the lateral view. **Lateral Approach:** A lateral decubitus position is a preferred position**i** f the patient can't lie on their stomach because of obesity, backache, respiratory discomfort, shoulder pain, or medical conditions such as high blood pressure. The disadvantage is that this requires a newer biplane camera unit that is not universally available. Mobile single plane C-arm serves the same purpose, instead of newer biplane machines.[8][11] It is vital to make the wheal right at the site of entry. For example, a small metallic object or the tip of a needle marks the entry site with the help of fluoroscopy. Lidocaine HCL, 1% concentration, is injected using a 25 gauge needle for several millimeters into the subcutaneous tissue to create a wheal. After numbing the skin, local lidocaine via a 3.5 inch 25 gauge spinal needle is injected to gradually numb the deep fascia, muscles, and ligaments, periosteum under fluoroscopic guidance after confirming that the needle is not within the dura. Combining 1 ml of bicarbonate with 4-5 ml of lidocaine reduces the initial stinging of lidocaine. The LP needle should not be used to administer the lidocaine to avoid accidental injury to the spinal cord and nerves. Most physicians prefer 20 and 22 gauge needles with a length of 3.5 inches (8.8 cm). However, in some situations, such as individuals with obesity, longer needles with a length of 14 cm (5.5 inches) are required. Longer needles are also difficult to steer. The larger gauge spinal needles, more than 22 gauge, are challenging to navigate. Only the introducer of the coaxial system with a smaller gauge such as 18 gauge is helpful to reach the thecal sac without penetrating. Then the 22 or 25 gauge needle is entered into the thecal sac via the introducer.The needle has a hub and beveled tip. The hub has a notch on the same side of the bevel. The notch of the needle acts as a marker and corresponds to the direction of the bevel. The sharp tip steers the needle. Hence, to direct the needle in the desired direction notch should be on the opposite side. We insert the needle in the inter-laminar space, an oval area of radiolucency on either side of the spinous process. The entry site should be directly above the inter-laminar area and marked