Alis et al. revealed that endoscopic band ligation (EBL) was associated with a lower risk of recurrent bleeding and shorter hospital stay compared with sclerotherapy.[15] Hemoclipping has proven effective in the treatment of Dieulafoy lesions with a success rate of 95%.[17] Combination therapy has better outcomes when compared with monotherapy for Dieulafoy lesions. During endoscopic treatment, the bleeding site is often tattooed with India ink for ease of future identification in a recurrent bleed event.[18] If endoscopic treatment fails, surgical treatment is performed, including wide wedge resection or partial /wedge gastrectomy.[19] ## Differential Diagnosis Dieulafoy lesion has a vast number of differential diagnoses based on the patients’ age, comorbidities, and overall health. Angiodysplasia is an important differential due to similar presenting symptoms. It can be differentiated on angiography, by the presence of arteriovenous shunting and vascular ectasia, and by histological examination of the lesion, which reveals the presence of abnormal submucosal vessels. Other similar conditions should be differentiated from Dieulafoy lesion based on presenting signs and symptoms, endoscopy, and angiography. These include diverticulosis, telangiectasias, vascular neoplasms, mucosal spider nevi, and connective tissue disorders. ## Prognosis The mortality and morbidity of Dieulafoy lesions have significantly reduced to 8.6% since the development of endoscopy.[8] Hemostasis is successfully achievable in 80 to 85% of the cases treated with endoscopy. ## Complications Due to the subtle nature of the disease, it is often missed as a diagnosis initially and may result in delayed treatment resulting in adverse complications. The most common complication is massive spontaneous gastrointestinal hemorrhage that may be fatal if left untreated. Intermittent blood loss may lead to iron deficiency anemia (IDA) and, in severe cases, hemodynamic instability. In some cases, it may lead to the worsening of pre-existing co-morbidities. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Patients need to minimize the risk factors for Dieulafoy lesion by avoiding the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and alcohol. Regular follow up with a gastroenterologist is necessary to monitor the condition and prevent a recurrence. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Most cases of Dieulafoy lesions go undiagnosed due to lack of awareness, acute onset of signs and symptoms, intermittent bleeding pattern, and difficulty in visualization on endoscopy. On endoscopy, Dieulafoy lesion may be difficult to diagnose due to its small size or the presence of normal-appearing surrounding mucosa.[9] Excessive blood in the GIT may also prevent visualization and further delay diagnosis. For these reasons, physicians