on the muscularis mucosae. Dieulafoy lesion can be distinguished from gastric ulcers on histology by a lack of subintimal fibrosis and mucosal inflammation.[10] ## History and Physical Dieulafoy lesions are often asymptomatic unless the mucosa overlying the vessel erodes, resulting in bleeding. The signs and symptoms are related to blood loss, either due to intermittent or massive gastrointestinal hemorrhage. Melena is the most common presentation, followed by hematemesis, hematochezia, iron deficiency anemia (IDA), hemoptysis, or hemodynamic instability. In rare circumstances, Dieulafoy lesion of the gall bladder may present with upper abdominal pain in the absence of overt bleeding.[11] ## Evaluation Direct endoscopic visualization of the Dieulafoy lesion is the gold standard method for diagnosis. Most patients are diagnosed after a single endoscopy; however, poor visualization of the GIT due to food particles or blood may require multiple endoscopies. The endoscopic visual diagnostic criteria that are necessary for a diagnosis of Dieulafoy lesion is as following: - Normal mucosa around the small defected mucosal lesions which has active pulsatile bleeding smaller than 3 mm - The visualization of a protruding vessel from a slight defect or normal mucosa - The observation of a fresh clot attached to a defect of normal mucosa[12] If lesions are not detected by endoscopy, angiography and capsule endoscopy can be used to confirm the diagnosis. On an angiogram, there is an extravasation of contrast into the GIT from the eroded artery. The presence of tortuous vessels in the arterial phase with no early venous return also indicates Dieulafoy lesions. The bleeding source is visualizable using technetium-99m red blood cell scanning or computerized tomography (CT) angiography.[13] ## Treatment / Management The first-line treatment modality for Dieulafoy lesion is endoscopy.[14] In the past, surgical treatment with gastrostomy or gastrectomy was performed; however, it has been primarily replaced by endoscopy since 1986. The three commonly performed endoscopic treatment procedures include: - Thermal, heat probe, or argon plasma coagulation - Regional injection-epinephrine (EPI) or norepinephrine(NOR) injection and sclerotherapy - Mechanical banding and hemoclips[6][15] Mechanical hemostasis comprising of banding and hemoclips is the safest and most effective treatment.[16] A study by Alis et al. revealed that endoscopic band ligation (EBL) was associated with a lower risk of recurrent bleeding and shorter hospital stay compared with sclerotherapy.[15] Hemoclipping has proven effective in the treatment of Dieulafoy lesions with a success rate of 95%.[17] Combination therapy has better outcomes when compared with monotherapy