patients with HFrEF, an ARNI is recommended to reduce mortality and morbidity. ARNI should not be given to patients who are intolerant of ACEI, and an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) should be substituted. For patients unable to take an ARNI due to economic factors, an ACEI or ARB is indicated. ARNI should not be used within 36 hours of the last dose of ACEI. Switching to ARNI is recommended for patients tolerating ACEI/ARB well, as it has a high economic value. As with ACEI, ARNI should not be given to patients with a history of angioedema. - For patients with HFrEF, using the beta-blockers carvedilol, bisoprolol, or sustained-release metoprolol effectively reduces mortality and hospitalization. - MRA is recommended for patients with HFrEF, NYHA class II to IV, an eGFR of >30 mL/min/1.73 m2, and a serum potassium of \<5.0 mEq/L. However, MRA is harmful for patients with a serum potassium of >5.0 mEq/L. - For patients with HFrEF, the use of SGLT-2 inhibitors is recommended to reduce mortality and HF hospitalization, irrespective of the diabetes status. - For African American patients with HFrEF and NYHA class III to IV who are already receiving optimal medical therapy, the addition of a combination of hydralazine and nitrate is recommended to reduce morbidity and mortality. This is of high economic value. - For patients with HFrEF and intolerance to RAASI or in whom RAASI is contraindicated due to renal insufficiency, the use of a combination of hydralazine and nitrate might be effective. - Titrating medications aggressively to achieve desired outcomes is recommended. This can be done as frequently as 1 to 2 weeks as tolerated. - Ivabradine can be useful in patients on optimal medical therapy with a heart rate of more than 70 bpm, providing mortality benefits and reducing HF hospitalization. - Digoxin may be considered in symptomatic patients with sinus rhythm despite adequate goal-directed therapy to reduce the all-cause rate of hospitalizations, but its role is limited. - In patients with HFrEF and recent HF, an oral soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator (Vericiguat) might be useful in reducing mortality and HF hospitalization. Vericiguat is a soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator that stimulates the intracellular receptor for endogenous nitric oxide, a potent vasodilator. It also improves cardiac contractility.[46][47] - Device therapy - ``` * An implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) is indicated for primary prevention of sudden cardiac death in patients with HF who have an