to 6 days, and lasts up to 14 days. There is an area of hypoperfusion around the hematoma. The factors causing deterioration in ICH are an expansion of hematoma, intraventricular hemorrhage, perihematomal edema, and inflammation.[1] Cerebellar hematoma produces hydrocephalus by compression of the fourth ventricle in the early stage. Non-aneurysmal spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage may be either perimesencephalic or non-perimesencephalic SAH. In perimesencephalic SAH, bleeding is mainly in the interpeduncular cistern. Physical exertion, such as the Valsalva maneuver producing increased intrathoracic pressure, and elevated intracranial venous pressure, is a predisposing factor for perimesencephalic nonaneurysmal SAH (PM-SAH).[8] There is diffuse blood distribution in non-perimesencephalic SAH (NPM-SAH).[9] ## History and Physical The common presentations of stroke are headache, aphasia, hemiparesis, and facial palsy.[10] The presentation of hemorrhagic stroke is usually acute and progressing. Acute onset headache, vomiting, neck stiffness, increases in blood pressure, and the rapidly developing neurological signs are the common clinical manifestations of hemorrhagic stroke.[5] Symptoms can lead to the extent and location of hemorrhage. - Headache is more common in a large hematoma. - Vomiting indicates raised intracranial pressure and is common with cerebellar hematoma. - Coma occurs in the involvement of the reticular activating system of the brainstem. - Seizure, aphasia, and hemianopia are seen in lobar hemorrhage. A prodrome consisting of numbness, tingling, and weakness may also occur in lobar bleed. - Contralateral sensorimotor deficits are the features in hemorrhage of the basal ganglia and thalamus. - Loss of all sensory modalities is the main feature of thalamic hemorrhage. - Extension of thalamic hematoma into the midbrain can cause vertical gaze palsy, ptosis, and unreactive pupil. - Cranial nerve dysfunction with contralateral weakness indicates brainstem hematoma.[5] - Usually, pontine hematoma produces coma and quadriparesis.[11] Cerebellar hemorrhage produces symptoms of raised ICP, such as lethargy, vomiting, and bradycardia. Progressive neurological deterioration indicates the enlargement of hematoma or an increase in edema. The clinical features of subarachnoid hemorrhage are severe headache described as a thunderclap, vomiting, syncope, photophobia, nuchal rigidity, seizures, and decreased level of consciousness.[8][9] Signs of meningismus such as the Kernig sign (pain on straightening the knee when the thigh is flexed to 90 degrees) and Brudzinski sign (involuntary hip flexion on flexing the neck of the patient) may be positive. ## Evaluation Computerized tomography (CT) is usually the initial investigation.[12] The hemorrhage increases in attenuation from 30-60 Hounsfield units (HU) in the hyperacute phase to 80 to