the thigh is flexed to 90 degrees) and Brudzinski sign (involuntary hip flexion on flexing the neck of the patient) may be positive. ## Evaluation Computerized tomography (CT) is usually the initial investigation.[12] The hemorrhage increases in attenuation from 30-60 Hounsfield units (HU) in the hyperacute phase to 80 to 100 HU over hours.[13] The attenuation may be decreased in anemia and coagulopathy. Vasogenic edema around the hematoma may increase for up to 2 weeks. CT is considered the “gold standard” in detecting acute hemorrhage due to its sensitivity. However, gradient echo and T2\* susceptibility-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has the same sensitivity as CT to detect acute hemorrhage. These sequences are more sensitive than CT for identification of prior hemorrhage. In the subacute phase, the hematoma may be isodense to brain tissue, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) may be necessary. The volume of the hematoma can be measured by the formula AxBxC/2, where A and B are the largest diameter and the diameter perpendicular to that.[14] C is the vertical height of the hematoma. Intracerebral hemorrhage with a volume of more than 60 ml is associated with high mortality.[15] The other poor prognostic factors are hematoma expansion, intraventricular hemorrhage, infra-tentorial location, and contrast extravasation on CT scan (spot sign).[5] The paramagnetic properties of deoxyhemoglobin allow early detection of hemorrhage in MRI.[16] Gradient echo (GRE) imaging is as good as CT in detecting acute bleed. MRI can distinguish between the hemorrhagic transformation of infarct and primary hemorrhage. MRI can detect underlying causes of secondary hemorrhages, such as vascular malformations, including cavernomas, tumors, and cerebral vein thrombosis. Extravasation of contrast in CT angiogram (CTA) indicates ongoing bleeding associated with fatality.[17] Multidetector CT angiography(MDCTA) helps rule out the causes of secondary hemorrhagic stroke such as arteriovenous malformation (AVM), ruptured aneurysm, dural venous sinus (or cerebral vein) thrombosis (DVST/CVT), vasculitis, and Moya-Moya disease.[18] (fig.4). Certain imaging characteristics help in the differentiation of the underlying disease.[19] - Multiple hemorrhages of different ages in parieto-occipital lobes are seen in cerebral amyloid antipathy. - Hemorrhage in an arterial territory indicates hemorrhagic infarction. - Multiple stages of bleed in the same hematoma with a fluid level are seen in anticoagulation-induced hemorrhages. - A combination of small ischemic and hemorrhagic lesions indicates vasculitis. - Hemorrhage in the presence of occlusion of arteries is the feature of Moyamoya disease. Four-vessel digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is necessary in the case