mortality at 24 hours or 30 days between ratios of 1:1:1 and 1:1:2 of plasma to platelets to packed RBCs. However, patients who received the more balanced ratio of 1:1:1 were less likely to die due to exsanguination in 24 hours and were more likely to achieve hemostasis. Additionally, reduction in time to first plasma transfusion has shown a significant reduction in mortality in damage control resuscitation. In addition to blood products, products that prevent the breakdown of fibrin in clots, or antifibrinolytics, have been studied for their utility in the treatment of hemorrhagic shock in trauma patients. Several antifibrinolytics have been shown to be safe and effective in elective surgery. The CRASH-2 study was a randomized control trial of tranexamic acid versus placebo in trauma has been shown to decrease overall mortality when given in the first eight hours of injury. Follow-up analysis shows additional benefit to tranexamic acid when given in the first three hours after surgery. Damage control resuscitation is to occur in conjunction with prompt intervention to control the source of bleeding. Strategies may differ depending on proximity to definitive treatment. ## Differential Diagnosis While hemorrhage is the most common cause of shock in the trauma patient, other causes of shock are to remain on the differential. Obstructive shock can occur in the setting of tension pneumothorax and cardiac tamponade. These etiologies should be uncovered in the primary survey. In the setting of head or neck trauma, an inadequate sympathetic response, or neurogenic shock, is a type of distributive shock that is caused by a decrease in peripheral vascular resistance. This is suggested by an inappropriately low heart rate in the setting of hypotension. Cardiac contusion and infarctions can result in cardiogenic shock. Finally, other causes should be considered that are not related to trauma or blood loss. In the undifferentiated patient with shock, septic shock and toxic causes are also on the differential. ## Pearls and Other Issues Trauma is the most common cause of hemorrhagic shock, but causes can span multiple systems. Tachycardia is typically the first abnormal vital sign of hemorrhagic shock. As the body attempts to preserve oxygen delivery to the brain and heart, blood is shunted away from extremities and nonvital organs. This causes cold and modeled extremities with delayed capillary refill. This shunting ultimately leads to worsening acidosis. The “lethal triad” of trauma is acidosis, hypothermia, and coagulopathy. Trauma-induced coagulopathy