symptoms suggestive of fluid loss and clinical signs of dehydration. Symptoms and signs of hypernatremia are secondary to central nervous system dysfunction and are seen when serum sodium rises rapidly or is greater than 160 meq/L. Infants and Children present with irritability and agitation, which can progress to lethargy, somnolence, and coma. Other symptoms include increased thirst response in alert patients and high-pitched cries in infants. Patients with diabetes insipidus present with polyuria and polydipsia. The skin can feel doughy or velvety due to intracellular water loss. Orthostatic hypotension and tachycardia are usually present in hypovolemic hypernatremia. The patient may have increased tone with brisk reflexes and myoclonus. It is important to remember that the degree of dehydration can be underestimated in children with hypernatremia due to a shift of water from the intracellular space to the extravascular space. Polyuria is one of the common symptoms of diabetes insipidus.[11][12] ## Evaluation The etiology of hypernatremia usually is evident based on history and physical examination. Plasma volume, plasma osmolality, urine volume, concentrating ability, and osmolality can help to further differentiate between renal and extrarenal causes. In DI, the urine is inappropriately diluted with normal urine volume and urine osmolality less than the serum osmolality. When DI is suspected, a water deprivation test may be performed with the administration of desmopressin. In central DI, desmopressin administration demonstrates an increase in urine osmolality, while in the nephrogenic variety, there is no response to desmopressin. In extrarenal causes, the body tries to conserve fluids with appropriately low urine volume, high specific gravity, and urine osmolality greater than serum osmolality.[13] ## Treatment / Management Proper management of hypernatremia involves identifying the underlying condition and correcting the hypertonicity. The goal of therapy is to correct both the serum sodium and the intravascular volume. Fluids should be administered orally or via a feeding tube whenever possible. In patients with severe dehydration or shock, the initial step is fluid resuscitation with isotonic fluids before free water correction. Hypernatremia is corrected by calculating the free water deficit using one of the following formulas.[14][15] - Total Body Water[0.6 in men and 0.5 in women x body weight(kg)] x [(plasma sodium/140) -1] - 4ml x bodyweight x (desired change in serum sodium meq/L) It is important to remember that rapid correction of hypernatremia can lead to cerebral edema because water moves from the serum into the brain cells. The goal is