may fail ASA therapy. Repeat ASA can be performed in patients with suitable anatomy and inadequate reduction of LVOT gradient. The meta-analysis by Agrawal et al showed ASA and surgical myomectomy had similar mortality rates and functional capacity post-intervention. However, an increased rate of conduction abnormalities and higher LVOT gradient requiring reintervention was noted in the ASA group.[8] There are currently no randomized controlled trials comparing ASA and surgical myomectomy. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes ASA performed by experienced interventional cardiologists in comprehensive HCM centers undoubtedly enhances procedural outcomes. Studies have shown the overall mortality from the procedures is \<1% and the survival rate is similar to surgical myomectomy.[7][9][10] Appropriate patient selection is the key to procedural success. Highly trained nursing staff aids in identifying potentially life-threatening complications, augmenting the need for immediate intervention. A skilled and experienced surgeon should also be on standby to handle any potential procedure-related complications. This requires collaborating with qualified staff support and a multidisciplinary team at every level to achieve great procedural success. A full discussion of the available treatment options should be held with symptomatic patients. The success rates, risks, and benefits should be explained in detail. Referral to centers with comprehensive HCM care and excellent clinical outcomes should be appropriate for eligible SRT patients. For severely symptomatic eligible patients with LVOT obstruction due to HCM, SRT can be performed as an alternative to an escalation of medical therapy after shared decision-making and explaining the risks and benefits of all available treatment options. ## Nursing, Allied Health, and Interprofessional Team Interventions The expert and prudent ancillary staff's support is always vital. Patient hemodynamics should be monitored throughout the procedure. Correct catheter and sheath size, appropriate balloons, and optimal contrast delivered by the support staff are crucial for procedural success. Unfractionated heparin should be given to achieve the therapeutic-activated clotting time of 250 to 300 seconds. Astute ECHO technicians should be available to monitor pericardial effusion during the procedure. Vascular access sites should be monitored for any bleeding concerns. In addition, physicians should be notified immediately if any complications are noted. ## Nursing, Allied Health, and Interprofessional Team Monitoring After the procedure, the patient should be transferred to the intensive care unit for further monitoring up to 4 to 7 days before discharge. The transvenous pacemaker should be left for 2 to 3 days. Patients should be monitored for the following signs. 1. Any