a reliable indicator of ACS, even when performed by experienced clinicians, so objective measurements are necessary in any patient with risk factors for IAH.[9][23] If a patient has penetrating abdominal trauma, has received large amounts of fluid resuscitation, or has undergone extensive abdominal surgery, there should be a high clinical suspicion for ACS. Diagnosing ACS can be challenging as ICU patients may have a range of extra-abdominal organ failures. Patients may also be intubated and unable to communicate their symptoms, so thorough monitoring of IAP, chart review to obtain past medical history, and overall clinical picture are essential for diagnosis.[9] ## Evaluation Imaging modalities are not standard practice for the diagnosis of ACS. However, imaging can show early indicators of IAH that may ultimately lead to ACS, such as peritoneal-to-abdominal height ratio >0.52, a maximal anteroposterior to transverse abdominal diameter ratio of >0.8, bowel wall thickening, elevation of the diaphragm, narrowing of the vena cava \<3 mm, and a large amount of intra-abdominal fluid.[9] The most accurate method to confirm the diagnosis is measuring the intra-abdominal pressure. The IAP should be measured anytime there is a known IAH risk. IAP measurement can be achieved using both direct and indirect methods. Direct methods include using pressure transducers (eg, Veress needle during laparoscopic surgery) or intraperitoneal catheters (eg, peritoneal dialysis catheter). These methods are highly accurate but are invasive. The most accepted method of measuring IAP is the use of indirect IAP measurements through intravesicular catheter pressures. This is the most practical approach due to its widespread availability and limited invasiveness. This technique involves aseptic clamping of the Foley catheter and connecting the Foley to a 3-way stopcock adjusted to the level of the mid-axillary line at the iliac crest to zero the transducer. 25 cc of sterile saline is then injected into the bladder. Measurements should be taken at end-expiration with the patient in a complete supine position. [5][14] Bladder pressures below 5 mm Hg are expected in healthy patients. Pressures between 10 to 15 mm Hg can be expected following abdominal surgery and in obese patients. Bladder pressures over 25 mm Hg are highly suspicious of ACS and should be correlated clinically. It is recommended that pressure measurements be trended every 6 hours to identify worsening IAH when there is potential for the development of ACS. Contraindications to using bladder pressures include bladder trauma, neurogenic bladder, benign prostatic hypertrophy, and