gait testing should be done. The eye exam may reveal papilledema as well as exudates and flame-shaped hemorrhages. Acute renal failure may also result in signs of pulmonary edema or peripheral edema. ## Evaluation The evaluation for hypertensive emergencies also depends on the symptoms and signs present. Once it is determined that a true hypertensive emergency is present or likely, labs such as metabolic panels, urinalysis, B-natriuretic peptide, and cardiac enzymes may be useful. An ECG is recommended in any patient suspected of having cardiac ischemia. Head computed tomography (CT) is recommended in patients with acute neurologic complaints or signs on an exam. A chest x-ray may prove to be useful in patients with shortness of breath. A chest x-ray may also show widening of the mediastinum in the setting or aortic dissection, but this is a relatively insensitive marker, and CT angiography of the chest and abdomen should be obtained to rule out or confirm a dissection and to determine the extent of the intimal tear.[7] ## Treatment / Management While the specific target organ that is affected may dictate some specifics of treatment, rapid lowering of blood pressure is the mainstay of therapy for hypertensive emergencies. The goal would be to lower the mean arterial pressure by 20% to 25% within the first 1 to 2 hours. Several agents can be used, but the unifying characteristics are that they are rapidly acting and easily titratable. For this reason, oral medications, such as clonidine and nifedipine, play no role in the immediate management of a hypertensive emergency. Intravenous vasoactive drips such as labetalol, esmolol, nicardipine, and nitroglycerin are typically effective options.[5][8] The key feature about management is that if there is no evidence of organ damage, then the blood pressure reduction should be gradual over a few days. On the other hand, severe hypertension in pregnancy demands immediate treatment. Female patients who become pregnant should be prescribed nifedipine, methyldopa, or labetalol during pregnancy; these women should not be treated with ACE inhibitors or ARBs. During the acute event, IV hydralazine or oral nifedipine can be used to lower blood pressure. **Current Guidelines** 1. Patients with a hypertensive emergency need admission with continuous blood pressure monitoring. 1. Assess for target organ injury and start parenteral medications as needed 1. If the patient has an acute emergency like aortic dissection, lower the blood pressure to below 140 mmHg in the first