Dual arterial access should be obtained. A 6F or 7F left coronary guide catheter is used to engage the left main coronary artery, and another access is used to introduce a 5F or 6F pigtail catheter to the left ventricle for measurement of the ventricle, LVOT, and aortic gradients. A coronary wire is advanced to the first septal perforator via a guide catheter in the left main. Then, the wire balloon (OTW) is advanced over the wire and inflated at the proximal portion of the septal perforator to occlude the vessel completely. After that, the dye is injected into the septal branch to ensure no reflux into the left anterior descending artery (LAD) and no collaterals supplied by this septal branch. Echocardiographic contrast dye is injected into the septal branch to spot the area of interest by a transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE). After delineating the targeted myocardium, 1 to 2 cc of absolute alcohol is injected into the septal perforator via an OTW balloon. Left ventrical to the aorta and LVOT gradients are measured by pigtail and TTE, respectively. Another 1 to 2 cc alcohol infusion can be repeated if a \<50% reduction in gradients is noted. The OTW balloon should be inflated 10 minutes after the last alcohol infusion. Then, a coronary angiogram is performed to view LAD for any unintended consequences. ## Complications The complications associated with ASA are ventricular septal defect, injury to LAD from the backflow of alcohol, tachyarrhythmia, and complete heart block. Other anticipated complications related to left heart catheterization included vascular access site complications, coronary artery dissection, thromboembolism like stroke/acute limb ischemia, right ventricular perforation from pacemaker insertion, and contrast injuries to kidneys and pericardial tamponade. Also, sedation can lead to respiratory failure, memory loss, and aspiration pneumonia. ## Clinical Significance The successful septal reduction is defined as a >50% reduction in LVOT peak gradient. Continuous improvement in gradient is expected, along with cardiac remodeling over a few years. ASA avoids the anxiety related to the surgery and reduces the recovery time and residual discomfort associated with surgery. However, between 5 to 15% of patients may fail ASA therapy. Repeat ASA can be performed in patients with suitable anatomy and inadequate reduction of LVOT gradient. The meta-analysis by Agrawal et al showed ASA and surgical myomectomy had similar mortality rates and functional capacity post-intervention. However, an increased rate of conduction abnormalities and higher LVOT gradient