to dynamic LVOT obstruction, arrhythmias, diastolic dysfunction, ischemia, and autonomic dysfunction. Dynamic LVOT obstruction is due to left ventricular septal hypertrophy and abnormal mitral valve or sub-mitral valvular apparatus morphology. Left ventricular hypertrophy can be observed in any pattern and distribution, with a basal anterior septum and anterior free wall being the predominant location. It causes the systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve (SAM), mostly the anterior mitral leaflet, worsening LVOT gradient and mitral regurgitation. This further leads to high intracavitary pressure and exacerbation of diastolic heart failure and ischemic symptoms. LVOT obstruction is significant if the peak LVOT gradient is ≥30 mm Hg. The ECHO findings in HCM, SAM, and LVOT gradients are illustrated in the images below. ## Indications In patients with symptomatic obstructive HCM, beta-blockers or non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers are used first at maximally tolerated doses. Either adding disopyramide to the regimen or SRT should be considered in patients who continue to have symptoms despite medical management. However, patients' preferences, age, and comorbid conditions should be considered when selecting the type of SRT. Surgical myomectomy is recommended for symptomatic patients requiring cardiac surgery for other conditions like multi-vessel coronary artery diseases (CAD), hemodynamically significant valvular disease at a comprehensive HCM center by experienced surgeons. As an alternative, ASA is recommended in comprehensive HCM centers by an experienced operator for prohibitive or high surgical risk patients with associated comorbid conditions or advanced age or patients refusing open-heart surgery.[2] The following criteria have to be met before considering ASA: 1. Septal reduction therapy is recommended in patients with clinical symptoms like severe dyspnea or chest pain (NYHA III or class IV), or symptoms like presyncope or syncope during exertion interfering with daily activities due to LVOT obstruction and peak gradient of ≥50mmHg at rest or with provocation in patients with septal hypertrophy and SAM of mitral valves. 1. Targeted anterior septal wall thickness>15mm. Septal thickness>30mm results in a suboptimal outcome. 1. A septal perforator perfuses the septal area of interest, causing dynamic LVOT obstruction and gradient. 1. No significant CAD. ## Contraindications The procedural outcomes depend on correctly identifying the eligible patients. Children and young adults with high resting peak gradients of ≥100mmHg should undergo surgical myomectomy. ASA is not preferred in the following situations: 1. Asymptomatic patients with good exercise capacity. 1. LVOT peak gradient of ≥100mmHg leads to suboptimal results. 1. Septal thickness \<15mm due