correctly identifying the eligible patients. Children and young adults with high resting peak gradients of ≥100mmHg should undergo surgical myomectomy. ASA is not preferred in the following situations: 1. Asymptomatic patients with good exercise capacity. 1. LVOT peak gradient of ≥100mmHg leads to suboptimal results. 1. Septal thickness \<15mm due to increased risk of VSD. 1. HCM with septal hypertrophy but without a major septal perforator vessel 1. The septal perforator gives collateral blood supply to other areas of the myocardium. 1. The septal perforator supplies a larger area of the myocardium than the focused area. 1. LVOT obstruction is mainly contributed by mitral valve pathology. 1. Other associated cardiac conditions like aortic stenosis, intrinsic mitral valve pathology, or anomalous papillary muscle require surgical repair.[2] ## Equipment If needed, ASA can be performed in a cardiac catheterization laboratory under moderate sedation or with anesthesia assistance. A coronary angiogram is required to assess any significant coronary artery diseases and locate the septal perforator in the region of interest. Usually, transthoracic or transesophageal, or intracardiac echo guidance is needed to localize the septal perforator by using ultrasound-enhancing contrast agent injection and monitoring LVOT gradients during the procedure. ASA with echo guidance has resulted in greater success, reduced procedure time, and lower complications like heart blocks and infarct size.[5] ## Personnel The procedures should be performed in a high-volume tertiary center by trained interventional cardiologists in a well-equipped catheterization laboratory with the support of experienced personnel. Also, cardiac surgeons should be on standby for any unexpected complications. Experienced operators have at least 20 ASA procedures or work in comprehensive HCM centers with a cumulative 50 ASA procedures.[6] ## Preparation Informed consent should be obtained. Major complications- vascular access, contrast injury, risk of myocardial infarction due to alcohol, complications from guide catheter, risk of conduction abnormalities including the risk of sedation, and possible deaths should be explained well in advance, including the need for repeat intervention in 7-20% of patient with residual obstruction.[7] ## Technique or Treatment A temporary transvenous pacemaker should be placed and kept for 2 or 3 days after the procedure. Dual arterial access should be obtained. A 6F or 7F left coronary guide catheter is used to engage the left main coronary artery, and another access is used to introduce a 5F or 6F pigtail catheter to the left ventricle for measurement of the ventricle, LVOT, and aortic gradients. A