pressure. **Current Guidelines** 1. Patients with a hypertensive emergency need admission with continuous blood pressure monitoring. 1. Assess for target organ injury and start parenteral medications as needed 1. If the patient has an acute emergency like aortic dissection, lower the blood pressure to below 140 mmHg in the first hour 1. for adults with no organ damage, lower the blood pressure by 25% in the first hour and then to 160/100 over the next 2-6 hours, and then gradually to normal over 2 days. ## Differential Diagnosis - Acute kidney injury - Aortic coarctation - Aortic dissection - Chronic kidney disease - Eclampsia - Hypocalcemia - Hyperthyroidism - Pheochromocytoma - Renal artery stenosis - Subarachnoid hemorrhage ## Prognosis In the past, hypertensive emergencies were frequently associated with kidney impairment, myocardial infarction, stroke, or death. With more awareness and better control of blood pressure, mortality has decreased significantly in the past 3 decades. However, after the acute treatment righter control of blood pressure is vital if one wants to lower morbidity and mortality.[9] Unfortunately, the overall long-term prognosis of patients with hypertensive emergencies is guarded. A significant number of these patients may develop adverse cardiac events or a stroke within 12 months. ## Complications Failure to make a diagnosis or treatment of a hypertensive emergency can lead to the following: - Renal failure - Vision loss - MI - Stroke ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care Until the blood pressure is controlled bed rest is recommended. A low sodium diet and weight loss are recommended. ## Deterrence and Patient Education The best way to prevent a hypertensive emergency is to remain compliant with antihypertensive medications. While routine hypertension can be managed by the primary health care provider, consultation from a cardiologist is recommended when the patient is on more than 3 antihypertensives and the blood pressure still remains elevated. ## Pearls and Other Issues Markedly elevated blood pressure is common with acute ischemic stroke and requires a specialized approach. Per AHA/ASA guidelines, patients eligible for thrombolysis should have blood pressure lowered to SBP lower than 185 mmHg and DBP lower than 110 mmHg and maintained at SBP lower than 180 mmHg and DBP lower than 105 mmHg for the first 24 hours. For those not receiving thrombolytics, only levels of SBP higher than 220 mmHg or DBP higher than 120 mmHg should be lowered as hypertension in acute stroke is usually