and 0.5 in women x body weight(kg)] x [(plasma sodium/140) -1] - 4ml x bodyweight x (desired change in serum sodium meq/L) It is important to remember that rapid correction of hypernatremia can lead to cerebral edema because water moves from the serum into the brain cells. The goal is to decrease serum sodium by not more than 12 meq in 24 hours. Close serial monitoring of serum sodium every 2 to 4 hours is essential during the acute phase of correction. Seizures occurring during the correction of hypernatremia are a sign of cerebral edema due to rapid shifts in osmolality, and the administration of hypotonic fluids should be halted. The estimated free water deficit should be corrected over 48 to 72 hours with a decrease in serum sodium not exceeding 0.5 meq per hour. Patients should be carefully monitored for the rate of correction, urine output, and ongoing losses. In cases of sodium intoxication, the free water requirement may be too large and cause volume overload, requiring the use of loop diuretics and, at times, peritoneal dialysis to remove excess sodium. There are no published reports of seizures or cerebral edema complicating rapid correction of hypernatremia in adults. Older children and adults with central DI may need desmopressin, which is available in intranasal and oral forms. Water intoxication and hyponatremia are adverse effects seen with the use of desmopressin. ## Differential Diagnosis - Cirrhosis - Central diabetes insipidus - Diarrhea - Hypocalcemia - Hyponatremia - Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus - Thirst defect - Type 1 diabetes mellitus ## Complications The most serious complication of hypernatremia is subarachnoid or subdural hemorrhage due to the rupture of bridging veins and dural sinus thrombosis. It can lead to permanent brain damage or death. Rapid correction of chronic hypernatremia causes cerebral edema, seizure, and permanent brain damage.[16] ## Pearls and Other Issues - Hypernatremia occurs due to net water loss or excess sodium intake. - It is more common in infants or older populations with neurological or physical impairment. - It is crucial to identify acute versus chronic onset hypernatremia before correcting the free water deficit. - It is important to remember that hypernatremia should be corrected over 48 hours. Rapid correction can lead to cerebral edema and seizures. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Hypernatremia is best managed by an interprofessional team that includes an internist, endocrinologist, emergency department physician, nurse practitioner, and the