ion leakage block ATP production and generate body heat. Thyroid, catecholamine, and adrenal hormones also increase in response to cold stress. Cold-induced, sympathetically mediated peripheral vasoconstriction reduces heat loss. Behavioral changes like adding more clothing, seeking shelter, starting a fire, and exercising help retain or produce body heat. Patients with mild hypothermia have a core body temperature ranging from 32 to 35 °C (90-95 °F). The core temperature for moderate hypothermia is 28 to 32 °C (82-90°F). The core body temperature is less than 28 °C (82 °F) for severe or profound hypothermia. Durrer et al use a hypothermia staging scheme for rescue work (see under "Staging" below) to determine which patients can benefit from resuscitation.[3] Worsening degrees of hypothermia result in great morbidity and mortality.[4][5] ## Etiology Hypothermia occurs when the body releases more heat than it absorbs or generates. Vital factors that help retain heat in the body include central and peripheral nervous system regulation and behavioral adaptation.[6][7] Extremes of age, hypoglycemia, malnutrition, and various endocrine disorders are common reasons for inadequate heat production. Conditions resulting in heat loss include inflammatory skin disorders like psoriasis and burns and excessive peripheral vasodilation from nervous system injuries. Cerebrovascular accidents, neurodegenerative disorders, and drug abuse may disrupt the hypothalamic thermoregulation function. Hypothermia may also be iatrogenic, often from drugs like general anesthetics, beta-blockers, meperidine, clonidine, neuroleptics, and alcohol. Besides organic causes, impaired behavioral response to cold stress may result in hypothermia, as happens in individuals with mental health conditions like dementia and drug abuse disorder. Situational circumstances from lack of shelter or clothing may occur in people experiencing homelessness.[8][9] ## Epidemiology About 700 to 1500 hypothermia-related fatalities are reported in the United States each year. The condition most frequently affects adults between the ages of 30 and 49, with occurrence 10 times greater in men than women. However, hypothermia's true incidence is unknown. Even with optimized in-hospital care, the mortality of moderate to severe hypothermia still approaches 50%. ## Pathophysiology The body's core temperature arises from the balance between heat produced by the body and heat lost to the surroundings. The normal value ranges from 36.5 to 37.5 °C. Four mechanisms are responsible for heat loss: radiation, conduction, convection, and evaporation. Heat radiation occurs when the body emits electromagnetic energy to the surroundings. Heat conduction is when thermal energy transfers between objects in contact. Heat loss by convection entails air molecules