cardiac load abruptly. Some patients may require more invasive methods besides active external rewarming. Methods range from airway rewarming with humidified air to full cardiopulmonary bypass. Humidified air and warm intravenous fluids at 40 to 42 째C can be used safely. Warm saline lavage of various body cavities such as the stomach, bladder, colon, peritoneal, and pleura may also be considered. Pleural and peritoneal lavages are preferable due to the larger mucosal surface areas. Pleural lavage involves placing 2 thoracostomy tubes. The first is positioned between the 2nd and 3rd anterior intercostal space in the midclavicular line. The other thoracostomy tube is placed between the 5th and 6th intercostal space at the posterior axillary line. The warm fluid infusion should begin through the anterior tube and drain through the posterior tube. Meanwhile, peritoneal lavage entails placing 2 or more catheters in the peritoneal cavity. This approach is both therapeutic and diagnostic, as it allows for the detection of occult abdominal trauma while rewarming the peritoneal cavity. Extracorporeal rewarming techniques allow for even faster rewarming. The methods include hemodialysis, continuous arteriovenous rewarming, cardiopulmonary bypass, and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) if available. Hemodialysis is the most accessible and can raise the core temperature by 2 to 3 째C per hour. Arteriovenous (AV) rewarming entails warming femoral arterial blood and allowing it to flow to the contralateral femoral vein. This method raises the temperature by 4.5 째C per hour. Both hemodialysis and AV rewarming require the patient to have adequate blood pressure. Cardiopulmonary bypass surgery and venoarterial ECMO are the most effective but highly invasive rewarming methods. These procedures are reserved for patients in cardiac arrest, hemodynamically unstable individuals, and people unresponsive to less invasive rewarming techniques. Cardiopulmonary bypass and ECMO can raise the core temperature by 7 to 10 째C per hour and simultaneously improve oxygenation and circulatory support. However, not all facilities can offer these procedures. Cardiopulmonary bypass and ECMO also require systemic anticoagulation, predisposing patients to spontaneous bleeding. ## Differential Diagnosis An abnormally low body temperature is associated with various medical conditions. The differential diagnosis of hypothermia may be classified into the following:[19] - Central failure - Cerebrovascular accident - CNS trauma - Hypothalamic dysfunction - Metabolic failure - Toxins - Pharmacologic effects - Peripheral failure - Acute spinal cord transection - Neuropathy - Endocrinologic failure - Alcoholic or diabetic ketoacidosis - Hypoadrenalism - Hypopituitarism - Lactic acidosis - Insufficient