defined.[3][7] The treatment for EAHE is a prompt correction of serum sodium with hypertonic saline and supportive care for its sequelae (respiratory support, seizure management). Noncardiogenic pulmonary edema may also develop secondary to osmotic dysregulation in EAH, leading to respiratory distress and the need for respiratory support. Rapid correction of hyponatremia may result in central pontine demyelination, a catastrophic and permanent demyelinating event that presents with neurologic deficits despite correction of the serum sodium. If EAH is diagnosed mistakenly in the presence of true dehydration or heat stroke, treatment with hypertonic fluids, fluid restriction, and lack of cooling may cause further harm to the patient.[3] ## Consultations Emergency medical providers and athletic event staff should consult a tertiary care center for recommendations on appropriate care and ultimate transfer of patients with suspected or confirmed EAH. Acute care providers in the hospital setting should consider a consultation with a critical care specialist in the event of significant hyponatremia below the institutional cutoff for care on a regular medical ward or for the development of EAHE noncardiogenic pulmonary edema or central pontine demyelination. ## Deterrence and Patient Education EAH can be prevented by avoiding overhydration, ensuring adequate oral sodium intake, and educating athletes, event staff, and healthcare providers on the prevention strategies and presenting symptoms. EAH occurs when hypotonic fluid intake exceeds total body fluid losses. Therefore the safest strategy for fluid repletion is a thirst-driven replacement to avoid overhydration. Estimates of individual athlete replacement needs by monitoring weight changes during training activities may also be used, though this may not be practical. Forced hydration, particularly at large volumes, should be discouraged.[3][7] Salty foods may be consumed in conjunction with oral fluids as desired by the athlete to support osmotic balance during endurance events. Supplementing the serum sodium with salt tablets or packets at any particular rate or total dose during activity has not been shown to decrease rates of EAH.[3][9] Athletes participating in organized endurance events should be educated on the risks of overhydration, the importance of concurrent food intake, and the signs and symptoms of EAH and other heat injuries. Event staff, EMS and frontline healthcare providers, and military members should also be educated on recognizing EAH in the field and prevention measures via avoiding overhydration and adequate oral intake.[3][7] ## Pearls and Other Issues The Defence Health Agency released a Practice Recommendation on the management of EAH in December