not treated in a timely fashion. This lesion is a form of dry gangrene. A secondary infection can turn it into wet gangrene. Infection by the anaerobic species _Clostridium perfringens_ produces gas, manifesting as crepitus in the skin. Frostbite infection may lead to amputation if refractory to medical treatment. Other complications of hypothermia include the following:[11] - Cold diuresis - Rhabdomyolysis - Aspiration - Hyperkalemia - Frostbite - Acute kidney injury - Pulmonary edema - Ataxia - Ventricular and atrial arrhythmias, frequently atrial or ventricular fibrillation and pulseless electrical activity - Coma - Pancreatitis - Death Rewarming also produces complications, which include the following:[20][21][22][23][24] - Takotsubo cardiomyopathy - Systemic inflammation - Electrical abnormalities like hyperkalemia, hypophosphatemia, hypomagnesemia, and hypocalcemia - Rhabdomyolysis - Ventricular and atrial arrhythmias (A. fibrillation, ventricular arrhythmia, PEA) - Infection like pneumonia - Platelet dysfunction from thrombocytopenia to platelet aggregation and thrombosis. - Alterations in glucose homeostasis from reduced glucose utilization to insulin resistance Prompt recognition and appropriate treatment help reduce the likelihood of complications. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Hypothermia is avoidable, and clinicians can teach patients measures that can help prevent this condition. The first is behavioral modification. Individuals should stay indoors as much as possible in cold weather. Otherwise, proper clothing should be worn for protection outdoors. The second is protecting vulnerable household members. Caregivers of young children, older individuals, and people with mental health issues must be reminded to ensure that their charges wear proper clothing. Medications that can cause hypothermia at large doses must be kept out of reach. The third is ensuring that dwellings are adequately warmed, with fire safety measures installed. The fourth is avoidance of activities that increase the risk of hypothermia, such as snowboarding or mountaineering in cold places. ## Pearls and Other Issues The most important points to remember about hypothermia management are the following: - Hypothermia arises from inadequate heat retention or massive heat loss due to various causes. Symptoms range from mild to severe. Severe hypothermia may result in death if not treated promptly. - Patients with hypothermia may present with unconsciousness, pulselessness, and lack of respiration. Resuscitation must be initiated right away in such individuals. - Most commercial thermometers can only read to a minimum of 34 °C, making a special low-reading thermometer necessary during patient examination. - The esophageal thermometer is the most accurate way of determining a patient’s temperature. - Rectal temperatures