leads to stimulation of renal V2 receptors, causing water reabsorption rather than excretion. The retained free water is returned to the extracellular fluid resulting in a net lowering of serum sodium concentration.[2] Subsequent hyponatremia results in an osmotic gradient that favors free water movement from the vascular space to the extravascular and intracellular spaces, leading to tissue edema (particularly brain and lung), which drives the most severe symptoms of EAH. ## History and Physical Prompt identification and differentiation from other common exertional injuries are essential to caring for an athlete with EAH. Healthcare providers should suspect EAH when athletes present during or within 24 hours following intense physical exertion, such as marathon running, cycling, triathlon, hiking, backpacking, or prolonged military field training or combat operations. The likelihood of EAH is increased if the exertional event occurred over a period greater than 2 hours or in hot weather.[2][3][1][4] Presenting symptoms range from asymptomatic, to mild, to severe. Mild symptoms include lightheadedness, malaise, fatigue, irritability, generalized weakness, headache, nausea, and sluggish urine output.[2] Severe symptoms include vomiting, oliguria or anuria, altered mental status, collapse, seizure, coma, and death during sport or soon after. Diagnosis of EAH is further supported by the absence of signs of symptomatic heat illness or dehydration, such as thirst, postural dizziness, dry mucous membranes, orthostatic hypotension, and elevated core temperature. Differentiating EAH from exercise heat illness and dehydration is critical, as isotonic fluid administration that would be given for the empiric treatment of either heat illness or dehydration could be life-threatening if the true diagnosis is EAH.[2][3][7] On physical examination, patients with mild EAH may demonstrate mild hyperthermia, tachycardia, flushing, diaphoresis, and lethargy. Patients with severe EAH may demonstrate altered sensorium ranging from inattentiveness to complete obtundation, loss of sweating, hypotension, and abnormal limb movements. ## Evaluation Initial evaluation of suspected EAH includes vital signs, determination of mental status via the Glasgow coma scale, and assessment of airway patency, adequate respiration, and intact circulation. Accurate core temperature is key and should be taken rectally if possible to differentiate from heat illness. Exertional heat illness such as heat stroke or heat exhaustion can occur concurrently with EAH, given the similarities in precipitating events and risk factors.[6] The serum sodium should be determined if point-of-care (POC) serum sodium testing is available (though this is not often practical due to cost and limited functional temperature range of POC testing devices).[1][2] A