the event of hyperglycemia. The liver will rapidly remove the circulating insulin, whereas C peptide remains in the circulation for a more extended period of time until cleared renally. The insulin to C peptide ratio in healthy individuals is usually less than one. A small quantity of proinsulin is also secreted into blood circulation without processing, which is detectable in the plasma.[4] ## History and Physical Patients with factitious hypoglycemia usually present with non-specific symptoms of hypoglycemia, which include: tremors, sweating, dizziness, irritability, hunger, weakness, altered mental status, seizures, or coma. However, those with a history of recurrent hypoglycemia may have less severe symptoms that are hard to recognize. Taking a good history remains a crucial step in evaluating hypoglycemic patients. Factitious hypoglycemia should be a potential diagnosis in the differential for patients who work in the medical profession, who are in close contact with diabetic individuals, and those with underlying psychiatric disorders like major depressive disorder and a history of suicide attempts. It is also essential to review the patient's current medication list, including any herbal preparations, as some herbals may be contaminated with sulfonylureas. It should also be suspected in diabetic individuals who, despite repeated adjustments of their insulin or oral hypoglycemic doses, continue to present with recurrent hypoglycemia episodes. Physical examination is usually nonspecific. Vital signs may show tachycardia and hypothermia, and diaphoresis can be present on skin examination. In some patients, careful skin inspection for insulin needle marks can help uncover possible factitious disorders in those who are not prescribed insulin.[5][6][7] ## Evaluation Fulfillment of the Whipple triad is necessary before establishing any diagnosis of a hypoglycemic disorder. The triad consists of\[8\]: 1. The presence of hypoglycemic signs and symptoms 1. Low blood glucose levels lower than 70 mg/dl 1. Resolution of symptoms after glucose administration and correction of hypoglycemia After confirming that a hypoglycemic disorder is present, and after excluding other potential causes, the following laboratory tests should be sent during hypoglycemia when the blood glucose level is less than 70mg/dl, including plasma insulin, C peptide, proinsulin, and insulin secretagogues blood levels. Synthetic insulin usually lacks C peptide, so in factitious hypoglycemia secondary to exogenous insulin administration, plasma insulin will show elevated, but there will be suppression of C peptide and proinsulin, and insulin to C peptide ratio will be greater than one. On the other hand, insulinomas and insulin secretagogues like sulfonylureas stimulate endogenous