Up to 600-1000 ml over 1 hour of hypertonic saline has been given without complication in case studies, though larger volumes of sodium repletion increase the risk for rapid sodium correction and osmotic demyelination.[8][2] **Hospital** On transfer to the hospital for advanced care, patients with suspected EAH should have immediate measurement of serum sodium and other electrolytes. Treatment in the hospital is similar to that in the field. Athletes with severe hyponatremia or evidence of cerebral edema with neurologic symptoms should be treated with a bolus of hypertonic saline as described above, with a goal serum sodium increase of 4-5 mmol/L and reversal of neurologic symptoms.[2] Patients with EAH encephalopathy may require ICU admission depending upon institutional criteria. ## Differential Diagnosis EAH falls on the spectrum of exertional injuries. The differential diagnosis for exertional injuries includes heat exhaustion, heatstroke, exercise-associated collapse, and exertional collapse associated with sickle cell trait (ECAST). Providers caring for athletes must also consider hypovolemia, hypoglycemia, sudden cardiac arrhythmia (Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, prolonged QT syndrome, channelopathy), hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, sudden cardiac death of unknown cause, seizure, vasovagal syncope, and malingering. ## Prognosis The majority of athletes recover from acute mild EAH within hours in the emergency care setting and do not require hospital admission. The duration of the emergency room stay after treatment with either oral or IV hypertonic saline solution has been reported between 50 and 79 minutes.[5] Severe EAH requires ward or ICU admission depending upon institutional criteria. Patients who develop exercise-associated hyponatremia encephalopathy risk significant morbidity and mortality secondary to cerebral damage from cerebral edema; the exact mortality rate is unknown.[4][7] It is unknown whether patients with prior EAH injury are at higher risk for repeat development in the future. ## Complications The major complications of EAH and its treatment include exercise-associated hyponatremic encephalopathy (EAHE), noncardiogenic pulmonary edema, central pontine myelinolysis, and improper treatment resulting from an alternate diagnosis. If left untreated, mild EAH can progress to severe EAH with profoundly altered mental status, seizure, and coma—an end-stage finding due to cerebral edema termed EAHE. EAHE is often fatal, though the exact mortality rate is not defined.[3][7] The treatment for EAHE is a prompt correction of serum sodium with hypertonic saline and supportive care for its sequelae (respiratory support, seizure management). Noncardiogenic pulmonary edema may also develop secondary to osmotic dysregulation in EAH, leading to respiratory distress and the need for respiratory support. Rapid correction of