appears in the precordial leads, and its height is proportional to the degree of hypothermia. Any dysrhythmic pattern is possible, but atrial fibrillation is the most common. Bradycardia is more common in patients with moderate to severe hypothermia and increases the risk of ventricular arrhythmia. ## Treatment / Management Hypothermia management focuses on quick rewarming and preventing further heat loss, ensuring that the airway, breathing, and circulation are adequately and promptly addressed. Wet clothing should be immediately removed and replaced with dry clothing or insulation.[14][15] Once emergencies have been ruled out, a more detailed examination must be made, noting the complete history, mental status, physical exam, and core temperature. Patients presenting with symptoms of moderate or severe hypothermia must be moved gently, as movements may increase cardiac irritability and precipitate fatal arrhythmia.[16] Comorbid medical conditions and trauma must also be investigated and addressed.[17] Individuals who have documented hypoglycemia may be supplied oral glucose. Rewarming of hypothermic patients involves passive external rewarming, active external rewarming, active internal rewarming, or a combination of these techniques. The treatment of choice for mild hypothermia is passive external rewarming at a rate of 0.5 to 2 °C per hour. After removing wet clothing, additional insulating layers are placed on the patient's body to prevent heat loss and promote heat retention. Shivering allows the body to produce up to a 5-fold heat increase from baseline spontaneously. However, this method requires adequate glucose stores. Additionally, vigorous shivering can be problematic in people with limited cardiopulmonary reserves as it increases oxygen consumption. Active external rewarming is necessary for moderate to severe hypothermia and mild hypothermia refractory to standard measures. A heated air unit can decrease heat loss and transfer heat through convection. Placing a heated pack on the patient's body can also help facilitate rewarming. Heat must be applied to the axillae, chest, and back for efficiency.[18] Water immersion is an alternative but more cumbersome and challenging to monitor. Immersing the extremities in warm water (44-45 °C) requires great care and attention. Rapid rewarming can cause peripheral vasodilation, forcing cold venous blood to return to circulation and increase cardiac load abruptly. Some patients may require more invasive methods besides active external rewarming. Methods range from airway rewarming with humidified air to full cardiopulmonary bypass. Humidified air and warm intravenous fluids at 40 to 42 °C can be used safely. Warm saline lavage of various body cavities such as