attempted to remove the vegetation. The role of anticoagulation is controversial as studies show worse outcomes in these patients. Indications for surgery: - Fungal endocarditis except for H capsulatum - CHF that does not respond to medical treatment - Persistent sepsis despite antibiotic therapy - Conduction disturbance caused by aortic root involvement - Recurrent septic emboli - Kissing infection between the aortic and mitral valve ## Differential Diagnosis - Atrial myxoma - Antiphospholipid syndrome - Connective tissue disease - Fever of unknown origin(FUO) - Infective endocarditis - Intra-abdominal infections - Lyme disease - Primary cardiac neoplasms - Polymyalgia rheumatica - Reactive arthritis ## Prognosis Infective endocarditis remains high. Morbidity occurs in more than half of children with a diagnosis of infective endocarditis. Most common complications are heart failure secondary to vegetation in the aortic or mitral valve, myocardial abscesses, toxic myocarditis, and life-threatening arrhythmias. Serious complications are systemic emboli, especially affecting the central nervous system. Other complications include a mycotic aneurysm, acquired ventricular septal defect, and heart block. Overall mortality rates range from 7-15%. ## Complications - Pericarditis - MI - Valvular insufficiency - CHF - Myocardial abscess, conduction block - Sinus of Valsalva aneurysm - Arthritis - Stroke - Glomerulonephritis - Arterial emboli ## Deterrence and Patient Education There has been a significant reduction in the incidence of infective endocarditis in patients with a history of procedure, thanks to the recommendation of prophylactic treatment. However, not all procedures need prophylaxis. In 2007, the AHA modified their infective endocarditis prophylaxis guidelines, and the indications for prophylaxis were reduced for dental procedures, genitourinary, and gastrointestinal tract procedures.[8][16] Indications for prophylaxis based on 2007 AHA: - Prosthetic cardiac valve or prosthetic material used for cardiac valve repair - Previous infective endocarditis Cardiac Heart Disease (CHD) with: - Unrepaired cyanotic CHD (including shunts and conduits) - CHD entirely repaired with prosthetic material or device, during the first 6 months after the procedure - Repaired CHD with residual defects to the site of a prosthetic patch or prosthetic device - Cardiac transplantation recipients who develop cardiac valvulopathy The particular individual condition of these recommendations makes reasonable direct consultation with pediatric cardiology to determine the ongoing need for prophylaxis. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Endocarditis is a serious life-threatening disorder that is best managed by an interprofessional team that includes a cardiologist, neurologist, infectious disease expert, cardiac surgeon, internist, pharmacist and ICU nurses. Endocarditis has