cardiac causes of these symptoms and not dismiss these symptoms as gastrointestinal illnesses. ## Prognosis While inferior wall myocardial infarctions traditionally have a good prognosis, a few factors may increase mortality. Approximately 40% of inferior wall infarctions also involve the right ventricle. Right ventricular infarctions are very pre-load dependent, and nitrates may precipitate a drop in blood pressure. Adding right-sided ECG leads, especially lead V4r, aids in that diagnosis. If timely treatment does not occur, there is a risk of cardiogenic shock as more myocardial death occurs. Also, heart block and bradycardia may occur because the right coronary artery perfuses the sinoatrial node. A high-degree heart block, defined as a second or third-degree block, is seen in 19% of patients with acute inferior wall myocardial infarction. The amount of collateral circulation to the AV impacts the rate of heart blocks. If there is a concomitant disease to the other coronary arteries, collateral circulation to the AV node is reduced, and the likelihood of heart block is increased. ## Complications The complications that can manifest with inferior myocardial infarctions are as follows: - Cardiogenic shock - Atrioventricular block - Need for pacing - Ventricular fibrillation ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care Postoperative considerations and rehabilitation with inferior myocardial infarctions include: - Cardiac rehabilitation - Lowering blood pressure - Decreasing cholesterol and blood glucose - Maintaining a healthy body weight ## Deterrence and Patient Education Important points of patient education for preventing or managing inferior myocardial infarctions include: - Discontinuing smoking - Eating healthy - Regular exercise ## Pearls and Other Issues Heart blocks are present in approximately 9% of patients upon presentation, and two-thirds of patients who develop a high-degree heart block during the acute course of their inferior wall myocardial infarction do so during the first 24 hours. While heart blocks are a main contributor to morbidity and mortality, most high-degree heart blocks are treatable with atropine. It is seldom necessary to use a temporary pacemaker. The damaged myocardium can lead to potentially lethal arrhythmias such as ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation (see **Image.** Ischemic Ventricular Tachycardia in a Patient With an Old Inferior Myocardial Infarction). It is necessary to monitor these patients in a monitored setting, usually an intensive care unit, during the acute part of the event. When potentially lethal arrhythmias occur, early defibrillation is essential. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Managing an inferior wall myocardial infarction requires an