hand, the onset can be acute and severe with high, intermittent fever. Associated symptoms are often nonspecific and include fatigue, myalgia, arthralgia, headache, chills, nausea, and vomiting. The presence of a new heart murmur or sounds of changing heart murmur is associated with heart failure. Splenomegaly, Roth spots, Janeway lesions, splinter hemorrhage, Osler nodes and petechial are frequently seen. Neurologic manifestations of meningismus, increased intracranial pressure, altered sensorium, focal neurologic signs, embolic strokes, cerebral abscesses, mycotic aneurysm, and hemorrhage are associated with the staphylococcal disease. Besides neurologic manifestation, staphylococcal disease can present complications like myocardial abscesses and may injure the cardiac conducting system producing heart block, or an abscess may rupture into the pericardium and cause purulent pericarditis. The classic skin manifestation of Osler nodes, Janeway lesions, and splinter hemorrhages usually develop late in the course of the disease. The appearance of these lesions signifies the vasculitis caused by circulating antigen-antibody complexes. Recognition of infective endocarditis is based on a high suspicion of infection in a child with an underlying risk factor. ## Evaluation Blood specimens should be attained as early as possible, even if the child has a mild illness with no significant physical findings. Three to 5 separate blood cultures should be collected after cautious preparation of the phlebotomy site. Contamination represents an issue when results come back positive for skin bacteria. Since bacteremia remains constant, the timing for collection is irrelevant. In approximately 90% of cases of endocarditis, the causative agent is identified from the first 2 blood cultures.[8][9][10] Is well known that antimicrobial pretreatment can reduce the yield of blood culture to 50% to 60%. Hence, the microbiology laboratory needs to be informed that the patient recently used an antimicrobial pretreatment, so other methods can be used to identify the etiologic cause.[11][12][13] When a patient has a contributing factor, the index of suspicion should be high. Echocardiography can be used to increase the probability of diagnosing endocarditis. Echocardiography can be useful in predicting embolic complications if lesions are found to be greater than 1 cm or fungal lesions are noted. Important to mention, the absence of vegetation des does not exclude endocarditis. Visible vegetations portend a poor prognosis. Echocardiogram predictors of embolism include: - Multiple vegetations - Vegetations more than 1 cm in diameter - Mobile pedunculated vegetations - Noncalcified vegetations - Vegetations that are prolapsing The Duke criteria aid in the diagnosis of endocarditis. The