vegetation des does not exclude endocarditis. Visible vegetations portend a poor prognosis. Echocardiogram predictors of embolism include: - Multiple vegetations - Vegetations more than 1 cm in diameter - Mobile pedunculated vegetations - Noncalcified vegetations - Vegetations that are prolapsing The Duke criteria aid in the diagnosis of endocarditis. The major criteria consist of positive blood cultures and evidence of endocarditis on echocardiography. The minor criteria include predisposition factors, fever, embolic-vascular signs, complex immune phenomena (glomerulonephritis, arthritis, rheumatoid factor, Osler nodes, Roth spots), single positive blood culture or serologic confirmation of infection, and echocardiographic signs not meeting the major criteria. Diagnosis of infective endocarditis is defined as 2 major criteria, 1 major and 3 minor, or 5 minor criteria. Culture negative endocarditis occurs in 5-12% of cases. This may be due to fastidious organisms and prior antibiotic therapy. ECG may reveal conduction delay or heart block, signaling involvement of the aortic root. ## Treatment / Management When a definitive diagnosis is made, antibiotic therapy should begin as early as possible. The choice of antibiotics, a method of administration, and length of treatment should be synchronized with pediatric infectious disease and pediatric cardiology.[14][15] For empirical therapy, is recommended to start with vancomycin and gentamycin which will cover the most common causes including _Staphylococcus aureus_ , _Enterococcus_ , and V _viridans streptococci_. Is required a total of 4 to 6 weeks of treatment to cover the period of vegetation formation, which is usually several weeks. Antibiotic therapy can be adjusted depending on the clinical status of the patient and laboratory findings regarding antibiogram. Antibiotics should be administered intravenously to achieve reliable sustained therapeutic levels. If associated complications like heart failure are present, appropriate therapy including diuretics and reducing agents can aid in the treatment. Surgical intervention for infective endocarditis is recommended in cases of the severe aortic valve, mitral valve or prosthetic valve involvement with intractable heart failure. Fungal endocarditis is challenging to manage. Is usually seen in severely immunosuppressed patients who have had cardiac surgery. For these cases, the recommendation is amphotericin B and 5-fluorocytosine. In some cases, surgery may be attempted to remove the vegetation. The role of anticoagulation is controversial as studies show worse outcomes in these patients. Indications for surgery: - Fungal endocarditis except for H capsulatum - CHF that does not respond to medical treatment - Persistent sepsis despite antibiotic therapy - Conduction disturbance caused by aortic