II, III, and aVF correlate with the inferior wall of the heart (see **Image.** ECG With Pardee Waves Indicating AMI). ST-segment elevation in those leads indicates an inferior wall STEMI. Reciprocal ST depression is often seen in lead aVL. Almost half of the inferior wall infarctions are associated with right ventricular myocardial infarctions. Right-sided ECG leads should be added to examine the right ventricle. Right-sided ECGs are performed by reversing the precordial leads to the right side of the chest in a mirror image of the traditional precordial leads. Lead V4R is particularly useful for detecting a right-sided infarction. If there is evidence of ST-elevation myocardial infarction, the catheterization laboratory should be activated. If there is no ST elevation, troponin levels should be followed.[7] ## Treatment / Management Suppose there is evidence of ST elevation on the ECG. In that case, the patient should be sent for emergency cardiac angiography to the catheterization lab with a goal door-to-vessel open time of under 90 minutes. Depending on facility capability or anticipated long transport time to an interventional catheterization lab, thrombolysis should be considered. If there is evidence of right ventricular infarction, avoid nitrates and provide volume to ensure adequate preload. The right ventricle contains less myocardium than the left and depends on adequate preload to ensure adequate cardiac function. If there is damage to the right ventricle, preload reduction from nitrates could result in significant hypotension. If this occurs, resuscitation with intravenous crystalloids and possible vasopressors is needed. Other treatments include aspirin load with 162 to 325 mg, unfractionated heparin, GP IIb/IIIa antagonist, and additional P2Y12 anti-platelets such as clopidogrel.[8][9][10] ## Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis can be quite extensive. Factors that increase the likelihood of cardiac disease include exertional pain, diaphoresis, nausea and vomiting, and radiation of pain to the right arm. Other life-threatening illnesses to consider include pulmonary embolism, aortic dissection, pneumothorax, esophageal rupture, and cardiac tamponade. There may be atypical symptoms, especially in women and older patients, so a high suspicion is required. Since symptoms include nausea, vomiting, epigastric pain, and fatigue, it is imperative to consider the cardiac causes of these symptoms and not dismiss these symptoms as gastrointestinal illnesses. ## Prognosis While inferior wall myocardial infarctions traditionally have a good prognosis, a few factors may increase mortality. Approximately 40% of inferior wall infarctions also involve the right ventricle. Right ventricular infarctions are very pre-load dependent, and