Interstitial lung disease deals with a diversified collection of disorders with different management approach and prognosis, which is why arriving at a final diagnosis, is paramount. It starts with a detailed patient history and physical exam coupled with laboratory testing, imaging, physiologic testing and possibly a biopsy. Initial routine laboratory evaluation consists of complete blood count to check for evidence of hemolytic anemia for example, as can be seen in SLE, or eosinophilia, as can be seen in drug-induced. Laboratory testing should also include hepatic function, renal function, and serologic studies. In some cases may, infectious studies may be appropriate (HIV, hepatitis). Imaging workup starts with a routine chest radiograph. The most common radiographic feature observed is a reticular pattern, however nodular or mixed patterns can be seen.[14] Occasionally some of these patterns can help you narrow down the possibilities. The presence of mediastinal lymphadenopathy on an XRay might signify the presence of lymphoma or sarcoidosis. High-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) can offer a better characterization of the disease and even aid in diagnosis in case of a negative CXR; the HRCT needs to be done in a supine position. In some cases, it may show a classic radiological pattern of some disease like usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP). The classic radiological pattern of UIP on HRCT is subpleural and basilar predominant changes, reticular patterns, honeycomb changes with or without traction bronchiectasis. If the diagnosis remains unclear after combining history, laboratory results and radiological findings, invasive workup may be helpful. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) gives nonspecific results, meaning there are no findings in a BAL that is proven pathognomonic for a particular type of ILD. BAL, however, can be helpful when it comes to narrowing down the options. For example, in patients suspected of hypersensitivity pneumonitis, BAL will show marked lymphocytosis. The decision to pursue a lung biopsy should be individualized. Not all cases require a lung biopsy. It is most helpful in diagnosing sarcoidosis and idiopathic interstitial pneumonia. Complete lung functions and oxymetry are necessary for all patients with ILD for prognostication and monitoring of the disease. ## Treatment / Management For those interstitial lung disorders with known causes, avoidance of irritant is essential. General supportive measures will include smoking cessation, pulmonary rehabilitation which can help improve functionality, and good pulmonary hygiene. Supplemental oxygen is necessary for those who demonstrate hypoxemia (SaO2 less than 88). With progressive disease despite the elimination of