per 100000 per year in males and 67.2 per 100000 per year in females.[10] These statistics derived from one of the most important epidemiologic studies, undertaken in Bernalillo County in New Mexico. ## Pathophysiology Many of the subsets of the disease are of unknown etiology. Regardless, they all ultimately share the same manner of development. The morphological changes seen histologically result from a sequence of inflammation within the parenchyma, which is the portion of the lung involved in gas exchange (the alveoli, the alveolar ducts, and the bronchioles). This compartment is the habitat to various proteins and pro-fibrotic elements. These proteins, after repeated cycles of activation, give rise to accumulation of connective tissue.[11] The trigger can be a known agent that deposited within the lung tissues. In some cases, the fibrosis arises spontaneously. ## History and Physical The most frequently reported symptom is a gradual onset of dyspnea, but sometimes it may simply be a cough. For example, in patients with bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia, an unrelenting cough is usually the presenting symptom.[12] Pleuritic chest pain is uncommon overall but does occur in some subtypes such as sarcoidosis. Hemoptysis may present from diffuse alveolar hemorrhages. On the other hand, a patient can be completely asymptomatic but have abnormal imaging. The history should include details regarding potential environmental or occupational exposures, current and past medications lists, history of any radiation exposures, fumes, dust, toxic inhalation. Family history is essential as genetics can play a role. Symptoms of rheumatologic diseases should be considered, but always keep in mind that dyspnea may be the only presenting symptom for rheumatological-associated interstitial lung disease. On physical exam, bibasilar crackles are characteristics but not necessarily a consistent finding. Patients with advanced disease may have digital clubbing or physical signs of pulmonary hypertension such as increased intensity of P2 of the second heart sound. ## Evaluation Determining the cause and severity of interstitial lung disease can be difficult. A clinician may be able to reach a diagnosis with a detailed history and supporting laboratory but might need to involve an interprofessional team for a higher diagnostic yield.[13] Interstitial lung disease deals with a diversified collection of disorders with different management approach and prognosis, which is why arriving at a final diagnosis, is paramount. It starts with a detailed patient history and physical exam coupled with laboratory testing, imaging, physiologic testing and possibly a biopsy. Initial routine laboratory