those interstitial lung disorders with known causes, avoidance of irritant is essential. General supportive measures will include smoking cessation, pulmonary rehabilitation which can help improve functionality, and good pulmonary hygiene. Supplemental oxygen is necessary for those who demonstrate hypoxemia (SaO2 less than 88). With progressive disease despite the elimination of offending agent, corticosteroids are desirable. Patients with bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia (BOOP) or hypersensitivity pneumonitis (HP) have rapid, dramatic improvement with corticosteroids. For cases that do not respond to corticosteroids, immunosuppressant therapy is an investigational therapy. The mainstay therapy for treatment of idiopathic interstitial pneumonia is corticosteroids and immunosuppressive therapies to intercept the inflammatory process within the lungs.[15] Right now, nintedanib and pirfenidone are immunosuppressant drugs that have been approved but only in the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.[16] Some studies have provided indirect evidence that early therapy within the course of the disease might correlate with therapeutic responsiveness because the lung architecture has not suffered significant derangement. Once fibrosis initiates, there has not been any treatment to reverse that process, but nintedanib can slow disease progression.[13] Transplant is the sole treatment modality that can reinstate physiological function in patients. ## Differential Diagnosis The differential includes pulmonary edema, ARDS, bacterial, fungal or viral pneumonia. ## Prognosis Prognosis varies amongst the subgroups of interstitial lung diseases.[17] Typical treatment responsive sub-classes are the following: acute eosinophilic pneumonia, cellular interstitial pneumonia, BOOP, lymphocytic interstitial pneumonitis, pulmonary capillaritis, granulomatous interstitial pneumonitis and finally, alveolar proteinosis. But in any case, prognosis still correlates with the extent of the disease on presentation. The subclasses that are notoriously resistant to therapy are advanced conditions such as idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. ## Complications Complications include worsening hypoxia, cardiovascular diseases, pulmonary HTN, infections. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes The diagnosis and management of interstitial lung disease are complex and requires an interprofessional team that includes the primary physician, nurse practitioner, pulmonologist, thoracic surgeon, pathologist, and radiologist. Once the diagnosis is made, asymptomatic patients may be placed under observation, but all symptomatic patients need treatment. The condition is known to progress to fibrosis and end-stage lung disease, hence long term monitoring is essential. Educating patients about the importance of smoking cessation is critical. The quality of life of most patients is poor, marked by significant respiratory distress with minimal physical activity.[16][18] Interstitial lung disease is best addressed by an interprofessional team that includes the patient's primary care doctor, a pulmonologist, nursing