on the lungs. Common agents are mineral dust, organic dust, and toxic gases.[3] Many different types of mineral dust have correlations, but the ones frequently cited with the disease are silica, asbestos, coal mine dust, beryllium, and hard metal. Organic dust includes mold spores and aerosolized bird droppings. Inhaled toxic gases (methane, cyanide) affect the airways either by direct injury or through reactive oxygen molecules. Epidemiologically, the magnitude of exposure-related injuries is hard to measure. It probably occurs even more commonly than estimated. That is why it is invaluable to thoroughly review a patient’s entire employment history and home to look for any evidence of potential agent-disease relationships.[3] - Auto-Immune diseases Connective tissue diseases and vasculitides affect all areas of the lungs (bronchioles, parenchyma, alveoles) which is why interstitial lung disease is a common feature of rheumatology diseases.[4][5] - Drug-induced ILD: More than 350 drugs have been identified to cause pulmonary complications whether through reactive metabolites or as a component of a general response.[6][7] A diagnosis is possible with appropriate clinical findings and in most cases should be established after excluding other causes. Radiological findings may be unpredictable, but because drug reactions usually affect the parenchyma, an interstitial pattern is what is most observed. The histopathology is also variable. The common patterns seen are eosinophilic pneumonia or hypersensitivity pneumonitis. - Idiopathic disease This variant is the most common type. This main category is called idiopathic interstitial pneumonia which is a combination of inflammation and fibrosis as opposed to infectious pneumonia.[8] There are seven distinct types, differentiated by histopathological features with clear clinical distinctions. Most cases are sporadic, but genetics can play a role. ## Epidemiology Interstitial lung disease incidence rates in the United States have been difficult to determine. Many speculate that the prevalence is far more substantial than formerly described. The reason that the reported prevalence may be so low is because of failure to recognize the disease. ILD is a diagnosis of exclusion that requires extensive investigation.[9] Now, newer guidelines/classification have made it easier. The estimated incidence is 30 per 100000 per year. The overall prevalence is 80.9 per 100000 per year in males and 67.2 per 100000 per year in females.[10] These statistics derived from one of the most important epidemiologic studies, undertaken in Bernalillo County in New Mexico. ## Pathophysiology Many of the subsets of the disease are of unknown etiology. Regardless, they all ultimately share