morbidity and mortality. Strokes are categorized as ischemic and hemorrhagic. Hemorrhagic strokes can further be classified as intracerebral and subarachnoid hemorrhage. Among ischemic strokes, the Trial Org 10172 in Acute Stroke Treatment (TOAST) classification is used to subdivide the categories that include the following: - Cardioembolism - Small vessel occlusion - Large artery atherosclerosis - Stroke of undetermined etiology - Stroke of other determined etiology (possible or probable depending on the results of ancillary studies) [2] A crucial aspect of classification involves the physician's ability to designate a specific subtype diagnosis as probable or possible, depending on the level of certainty. A diagnosis is considered "probable" when clinical findings, neuroimaging data, and results of diagnostic studies align with a particular subtype, and other potential causes have been ruled out. On the other hand, a diagnosis is labeled as "possible" when clinical findings and neuroimaging data suggest a specific subtype, but additional studies have not been conducted. Given that many patients undergo a limited number of diagnostic tests, the categorizations of probable and possible allow the physician to establish as precise a subgroup diagnosis as possible. ## Etiology The etiology of ischemic stroke is a thrombotic or embolic event that causes an impairment of blood flow to an area of the brain. In a thrombotic event, the blood flow to the brain is obstructed within the blood vessel due to a thrombus (clot) within the vessel itself, usually secondary to atherosclerotic disease, arterial dissection, fibromuscular dysplasia, or inflammatory conditions. In an embolic event, debris from elsewhere in the body blocks blood flow through the affected vessel. The source of emboli can be the proximal artery, such as an atherosclerotic plaque in the internal carotid artery, causing an artery-to-artery embolic stroke distally from any proximal source, commonly from the heart. Occasionally, the source may be from the right side of the circulation, going through a right-to-left shunt, such as a patent foramen ovale, towards the cerebral arterial system. The etiology of stroke affects both prognosis and outcomes.[3][4] **Cardioembolism:** This group comprises patients with arterial blockages likely caused by an embolism originating in the heart. Cardiac sources are categorized into high-risk and medium-risk groups based on their propensity for embolism. At least 1 cardiac source of an embolus must be identified to consider a possible or probable diagnosis of cardioembolic stroke. Clinical and brain imaging findings resemble those described for large-artery atherosclerosis. Evidence