Surgery (WJES) treatment guidelines for perforated colon cancer, if the perforation is at the tumor site, recommend resection with anastomosis for a right- or left-sided process if there is no sepsis. If left-sided cancer perforates at a site proximal to the tumor, a subtotal colectomy may be required. In this setting, the recommendation is, if possible, limited resection of the terminal ileum and allowance for a distal colon remnant above peritoneal reflection to reduce the impact of diarrhea and stool incontinence. No randomized controlled studies exist that compare the creation of an anastomosis versus a diverting stoma in the perforation setting, and an overlap in the percentage of anastomotic leaks is present when comparing emergent and elective cases. The WJES supports resection with anastomosis for right-sided obstructing cancers and an internal bypass versus stenting for nonresectable tumors and palliative situations. An option for right-sided stenting includes using a self-expanding through-the-scope stent. Neoadjuvant therapy is the standard of care for locally advanced rectal cancer, and a transverse colostomy may be created in this setting. The WJES asserts that stool in the colon does not affect the rate of anastomotic dehiscence.[1] The optimal surgical approach for malignant obstruction remains a topic of debate, both in curative and palliative settings, for elective and emergent situations. Significant discussion persists regarding single- versus two-stage procedures for left-sided obstruction. Many stomas do not get reversed, and individuals who undergo reversal are subject to possible increased morbidity and mortality, with uncertain long-term survival benefits. Age, ASA status, operative conditions, cancer stage, and surgeon experience all influence outcomes. The use of tube decompression for left-sided malignant obstruction as a bridge to surgery remains debated, suggesting that palliative stenting is preferable to a colostomy due to lower morbidity and mortality. Studies comparing colostomy to stenting found similar morbidity but shorter recovery for stenting, but stent migration and perforations increased morbidity and mortality. Stent complications may be associated with the use of drugs such as bevacizumab, an antiangiogenic. Stenting may increase the potential for a successful subsequent laparoscopic tumor resection but may promote tumor dissemination and lymph node invasion and pose an increased risk for perforation, both of which impact disease-free survival. However, many studies comparing stenting to emergency surgery found no difference in recurrence, 3-year, or 5-year mortality.[1] **Etiology-Guided Interventions** For patients with sigmoid volvulus, tube decompression should be attempted with a rigid or flexible sigmoidoscope. A rectal tube