changes. Sites of herniation that can cause large bowel obstruction include spigelian, lumbar, inguinal, diaphragmatic, lumbar, and intermesenteric regions. A large bowel obstruction due to endometriosis may be characterized by a history of pelvic pain, dysmenorrhea, rectal pain, or pain during bowel movements. A clinical history of obstructive etiologies, such as uterine fibroids or pelvic malignancy, may include symptoms such as dysmenorrhea or irregular menstrual cycles. Large bowel obstruction due to stool impaction is often observed in patients with a history of chronic constipation or the use of medications that reduce bowel motility. Stool impaction is more common in chronically ill or impaired individuals or those with psychiatric or medical conditions that predispose to constipation and bowel irregularity. Affected patients typically present with distension, pain, and fecal incontinence and may develop a stercol ulcer that can cause perforation. A digital rectal examination may reveal a hard stool mass in the rectum. Retroperitoneal fibrosis can cause colonic obstruction, leading to back, flank, and abdominal pain, fevers, fatigue, and weight loss. Clinical features of colonic intussusception can be nonspecific and may include pain, nausea and vomiting, fever, bowel changes, hematochezia, and a mass identified on imaging.[8][21] A person with a perforated colon shows signs of peritonitis, with diffuse rebound and guarding, and may have physiologic distress, including tachycardia and hypotension. Pain may be sharp, radiate to the pelvis, epigastrium, or chest, and may be acute in onset with accompanied fevers, chills, nausea, and vomiting.[24] ## Evaluation Obtaining a detailed history, performing a thorough physical examination, and conducting imaging are crucial in evaluating a suspected large bowel obstruction. Laboratory tests for anemia, infection, renal function, and electrolytes are initiated to drive resuscitation and focused treatment, including infusion of contrast for imaging.[25][26][27] Leukocytosis and acidosis may indicate tissue ischemia. In addition, testing for _Clostridium difficile_ and any electrolyte dysfunction should be conducted to help direct therapy and decision-making.[14] **Diagnostic Imaging Studies** Imaging typically begins with supine and upright or decubitus x-rays, which can reveal a dilated colon with a possible transition in the area of the obstruction and a lack of gas in the rectum or any site distal to the obstruction. Air-fluid levels may be evident in the colon. Evidence of necrosis or perforation may also be identified in an x-ray through findings such as pneumoperitoneum and gas in the bowel wall or portal venous system.[19][28][29] A suspected obstruction identified on plain film