for emergency treatment for colonic obstruction currently compared to previous decades.[5] Pseudo-obstruction is more common in men older than 60, many of whom are critically ill, with a reported incidence of 0.1% of inpatient admissions in the United States. If a pseudo-obstruction progresses to ischemia or perforation, the mortality is as high as 44%.[14] In individuals diagnosed with pseudo-obstruction, the risk of cecal perforation is 15%, with a mortality of 50%. Duration of distension correlates with the risk of perforation.[19] The average age of a person with a sigmoid volvulus is 70, whereas a cecal volvulus typically occurs in individuals in their fifth decade.[14] ## Pathophysiology Large bowel obstruction in a competent ileocecal valve setting involves a segment of the colon that does not permit inflow or outflow. Over time, the segment continues to distend, exacerbated by gas-forming bacteria. The distension initially impedes venous outflow, further contributing to the dilation until arterial inflow is compromised. This process progresses from reversible to irreversible ischemia and necrosis, ultimately leading to perforation. The cecum has the largest diameter and thinnest wall and is thus at greatest risk of perforation. When the colon is obstructed and distended, its motility is disrupted, leading to bacterial overgrowth. Mucosal edema and ischemia lead to the breakdown of the mucosal barrier, resulting in bacterial translocation of the gut flora and fecalization of the small bowel, increasing the risk of bacteremia and sepsis.[1][12] Pseudo-obstruction is attributed to excessive sympathetic stimulation within the colon due to a disruption of parasympathetic activity, further exacerbated by the direct stimulation of mechanoreceptors, resulting in decreased motility. Factors contributing to the incidence of volvulus include poor or absent peritoneal fixation of the colon, a longer or redundant colon segment, and thinning of the colonic mesentery in the setting of dysmotility secondary to causes such as chronic constipation or use of laxatives.[1][12][14][20] ## History and Physical The clinical features of large bowel obstruction depend on the etiology and the anatomical site of the obstruction. In general, patients may present with pain, abdominal distention, minimal or absent flatus or bowel movements, and nausea and vomiting. Patients with an incompetent ileocecal valve decompress their large bowel into the small bowel, eventually leading to vomiting. However, patients with a competent ileocecal valve have ongoing distension of the obstructed colon and often develop progressive right iliac fossa pain, signifying impending cecal perforation. A rectal examination may reveal a vault