is positioned over a guidewire, inflated with saline, and then deflated and removed. The balloon size must be compatible with the lumen to minimize the risk of perforation. Dilation under fluoroscopic guidance is possible when available and involves the injection of dilute contrast into saline. Successful resolution of obstruction has been reported to be 89% following 1 dilation, with recurrent obstruction noted in up to 50% of cases within 5 years of the dilation procedure. Another alternative to stenting is decompression using a nasogastric or rectal tube, but overall, better short-term outcomes with stenting have been observed compared to decompressive tubing.[5] Studies have reported definitive resection and reconstruction following 7% to 14% of stent cases and 12% to 60% of balloon dilation cases.[35] **Surgical Procedures** Patients with malignant obstruction require surgery as a component of curative oncologic management. Surgical interventions range from a single-stage procedure intended to be curative to multiple interventions involving alleviation of the obstruction, followed by a multi-stage oncologic resection and restoration of continuity. Patients with advanced disease may undergo palliative intervention. The surgical approach differs by anatomical location and disease stage.[5] In patients with metastatic disease, a defunctioning stoma can allow for the timely start of chemotherapy. Patients with early-stage nonmetastatic disease may undergo resection with anastomosis, followed by adjuvant therapy as necessary. A two-stage operation remains common, including an initial primary resection with a colostomy or a diverting colostomy, followed by resection or reanastomosis. In experienced hands, laparoscopy has been associated with fewer complications, increased 3-year overall survival, and disease-free survival.[39][5] A single-stage operation for a malignant obstruction, including washout, resection, and primary anastomosis, is recommended for individuals younger than 70 with an ASA score of I or II without significant comorbidities. A study involving 600 patients with right-sided malignant obstructions indicated higher complication and mortality rates in those undergoing a single-staged procedure; however, their 5-year overall and disease-free survival rates were comparable to patients who underwent a multi-stage procedure.[40] A Japanese study highlighted increased 90-day mortality in adults older than 75 who underwent primary resection for obstructed colon cancer.[41] The World Journal of Emergency Surgery (WJES) treatment guidelines for perforated colon cancer, if the perforation is at the tumor site, recommend resection with anastomosis for a right- or left-sided process if there is no sepsis. If left-sided cancer perforates at a site proximal to the tumor, a subtotal colectomy may be required. In this