nausea and vomiting - Fatigue - Anorexia - Weight loss - Anemia - Neutropenia - Nephrotoxicity (especially in patients receiving cisplatin-based therapies) - Neurotoxicities ## Deterrence and Patient Education The single most important preventive measure is smoking cessation in all individuals. Patients should be advised about the clinical correlation of lung cancer with smoking at every clinician visit. Another important method of decreasing the morbidity and mortality associated with lung cancer is effective screening. A low-dose helical computed tomography (LDCT) is indicated for high-risk individuals for primary prevention. Smokers between the ages of 66 to 80 years benefit more from screening than those aged 55 to 64 years.[45] Patients without a history of smoking do not benefit from lung cancer screening. Multiple other models incorporating clinical factors such as a history of lung disease, family history of lung cancer, and asbestos exposure have been developed. They can be applied to determine at-risk individuals who may benefit from screening. Current guidelines by the United States Preventive Services Task Force (2021) recommend an annual LDCT for patients aged 50 to 80 years who are at high risk of lung cancer due to their smoking history.[46] High-risk individuals are defined as those who have a greater than or equal to 20 pack-year smoking history and are either actively smoking or have quit within the past 15 years. ## Pearls and Other Issues **Palliative Care in Lung Cancer** All therapeutic options, surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation have a role in managing pain and other symptoms in terminal lung cancer patients. Surgery results in better outcomes in patients with at least three months of expected survival and good performance status. Surgical procedures for palliation include tumor bypass procedures, partial resection of the tumor, and removal of metastasis. Surgical intervention may be beneficial in patients with lung cancer if there is airway obstruction, hemoptysis, pleural or pericardial exudate, or metastases to the brain or bone. Almost 30% of lung cancer patients experience central airway occlusion, and bronchoscopic laser destruction followed by stent placement provides immediate relief in such patients.[47] Chemotherapy helps alleviate symptoms of pain and cough and may prolong survival. Palliative radiation provides symptomatic relief in 41% to 95% of lung cancer patients. Almost 60% of lung cancer patients, regardless of type and stage, receive radiation treatments during their course of illness. Radiation plays a crucial role in alleviating pain symptoms due to metastasis, particularly brain