Tomography of a Lung Abscess) or ultrasound. The radiological sign of an air-fluid level can also be seen in hydatid cysts of the lung.[10] Sputum examination helps identify microbiological agents or confirm bronchial carcinoma. Microbiologic analysis of sputum can potentially assist in management. If the patient presents with risk factors for fungi or mycobacteria in their history, particular cultures should be requested.[11] Diagnostic bronchoscopy is crucial for obtaining material for microbiological examination and confirming an intrabronchial cause of the abscess, such as a tumor or foreign body. Pleural fluid analysis and bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage also have been utilized in rare cases.[12] Lung abscesses are more prone to develop over the posterior segment of the right upper lobe and middle lobe followed by the superior segment of the right lower lobe and sometimes of the left lung in case of aspiration of oropharyngeal contents.[13] Complicated lung abscess can cause pyopneumothorax or pleural empyema. In such cases, pleural fluid analysis can aid in diagnosis. Lung abscesses in patients who are immunocompromised have an increased risk of complications. However, immunocompetent patients with adequate treatment have a decreased risk of complications and usually resolve in 3 weeks. Furthermore, in cases of lung abscesses secondary to hematologic spread, blood cultures and echocardiography are essential in determining the appropriate management. ## Treatment / Management Clinicians should consider empiric antibiotic therapy in patients suspected of having a lung abscess. Empiric coverage should target colonized organisms in the upper airway and oropharynx, including gram-positive cocci, gram-negative cocci, and aerobic and anaerobic gram-negative bacilli. If the patient is exposed to healthcare set 3 months before the presentation, coverage for methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ (MRSA) should be considered. Atypical organisms can be found in the setting of an abscess that is not improving with broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy. Poor prognostic factors include individuals who are older or with severe comorbidities, immunosuppression, bronchial obstruction, and neoplasms. Beta-lactamase inhibitors (eg, ticarcillin-clavulanate, ampicillin-sulbactam, amoxicillin-clavulanate, and piperacillin-tazobactam) are the preferred initial empiric antibiotic therapy followed by imipenem or meropenem.[14] Clindamycin, as an empiric treatment for lung abscess, is no longer recommended given the risk of _Clostridium difficile_ infection, but it remains an alternative for penicillin-allergic patients. For MRSA, vancomycin or linezolid are preferred. Daptomycin has no activity against pulmonary infections.[15] For methicillin-sensitive _Staphylococcus aureus_ , preferred pharmacologic treatments are cefazolin 2 g intravenously (IV) every 8 hours, nafcillin 2 gm IV every 4 hours, or