_Clostridium difficile_ infection, but it remains an alternative for penicillin-allergic patients. For MRSA, vancomycin or linezolid are preferred. Daptomycin has no activity against pulmonary infections.[15] For methicillin-sensitive _Staphylococcus aureus_ , preferred pharmacologic treatments are cefazolin 2 g intravenously (IV) every 8 hours, nafcillin 2 gm IV every 4 hours, or oxacillin 2 gm IV every 4 hours. Dosing adjustment is considered in patients with compromised renal function. Antibiotic duration is usually around 3 weeks but varies depending on clinical response. Clinicians should consider switching to oral antibiotics once patients are afebrile, stable, and able to tolerate an oral diet. Amoxicillin-clavulanate is the drug of choice for oral antibiotics for lung abscesses.[16] Metronidazole, as a single therapy, does not appear particularly useful due to polymicrobial flora.[17] Abscesses larger than 6 cm are unlikely to resolve with antibiotic therapy alone and might require surgical or percutaneous intervention.[2] In patients who fail to respond to medical therapy, surgical intervention is considered with lobectomy or pneumonectomy.[18] In patients who are poor surgical candidates, percutaneous and endoscopic drainage is considered.[19] When the clinical response is inadequate, associated conditions or alternative diagnoses are considered, especially for certain fungi and mycobacteria. Empyema sometimes might be misdiagnosed as a parenchymal abscess. Antibiotic administration has proven beneficial in the case of chronic lung abscesses.[20] Additionally, in the case of hematologic causes of lung abscess, any underlying conditions (eg, infective endocarditis, septic thromboembolism) should be thoroughly treated. ## Differential Diagnosis Differential diagnoses that should be considered when evaluating patients with a lung abscess include: - Excavating bronchial carcinoma (squamocellular or microcellular) - Excavating tuberculosis - Localized pleural empyema - Infected emphysematous bullae - Cavitary pneumoconiosis - Hiatal hernia - Pulmonary hematoma - Hydatid cyst of the lung - Cavitary infarcts of lung - Polyangiitis with granulomatosis (Wegener granulomatosis) - Foreign body aspiration - Septic pulmonary emboli ## Prognosis In most cases, empiric antibiotic therapy successfully treats primary lung abscesses, followed by targeted therapy depending on gram stain and culture results, with an approximately 90% cure rate. Secondary abscesses require treatment of the underlying cause to improve the outcome. The prognosis of patients with secondary lung abscesses is poor, especially in immunocompromised patients and patients with bronchial neoplasm, with a mortality rate of approximately 75%.[21] ## Complications Complications primarily develop secondary to the underrecognition or inappropriate treatment of a lung abscess's underlying etiology. Complications include abscess rupture into the pleural space,