clinical status, psychological factors, and the length of time required for the exam and weigh the risks and benefits. - There is abundant information published about gadolinium and paramagnetic contrast agents. A glomerular filtration rate of less than 30 is a contraindication to receiving gadolinium contrast. Due to impaired contrast clearance, these patients are at increased risk of developing a systemic phenomenon called nephrogenic systemic fibrosis. - The effect of MRI contrast on pregnancy is largely unknown and, therefore, avoided. Since gadolinium contrast is excreted quickly, nursing mothers can resume breastfeeding 36 to 48 hours after having an MRI. No deleterious effects have been documented from MRI during pregnancy, and for this reason, a medically indicated MRI can be performed in any trimester. The risk of harming the pregnancy versus the benefit of the scan should be considered, and the MRI should wait until after pregnancy when appropriate.[20] - A common patient concern regarding the utilization of MRI imaging is claustrophobia and anxiety during the MRI exam. Anxiety attacks have been found to occur in as many as 2% of MRIs, with as many as 1% resulting in premature cessation of the study.[4] - Proximity to the magnetic field is a source of risk for the patient, and stepwise measures are in place to ensure that ferromagnetic materials do not breach specific zones surrounding the magnet. All patients are screened before MR imaging is approved, but special attention should be paid to those with known exposure to shrapnel, bullets, or other metal fragments. Implanted medical devices are susceptible to the magnetic field with the potential for altered function, hardware positioning, and possible temperature changes. Many implanted devices, such as prosthetic heart valves, stents, and artificial joints, are safe for MRI but cause imaging artifacts.[6] Therefore, it is important to communicate and consult with the radiologist and MR technologist, who can confirm or deny device compatibility with MRI. ## Clinical Significance MRI in the clinical setting has improved patient care by offering an alternative imaging method for non-ionizing radiation. The value of not relying solely on standard X-ray-based imaging techniques is best illustrated in cases requiring regular monitoring of disease progression, most notably multiple sclerosis and inflammatory bowel disease. MRI also offers a lower-risk diagnostic evaluation for those who are at a high risk of long-term radiation-related complications, such as children and pregnant women. The alternative non-contrast techniques used in MRI