MR protocols to evaluate the appendix in pregnant women and small children if ultrasound is not diagnostic. **Musculoskeletal** : Magnetic resonance imaging is useful to diagnose internal derangements of the support structures of the joints, occult fractures, bone marrow edema, infiltrative processes of the marrow space, and soft-tissue masses. Radiographs are first-line imaging of the musculoskeletal structures and are an important contribution to MRI interpretation. To highlight this point, consider that independent of radiographic findings, an MRI of the hip changed clinical management in as little as 7% of patients in a retrospective study performed at a single institution.[16] Many published studies agree that MRI is the most useful and affects patient management when ordered by an experienced physician or orthopedic specialist.[16][17] The aging population of the United States correlates with the increasing popularity and frequency of joint arthroplasties. The 2017 American Joint Replacement Registry reported more than 1 million total joint replacements annually, and that number is predicted to quadruple by 2030.[18] Radiographs are vital in the assessment of the hardware and joint structures. The development of paramagnetic arthroplasty materials, like titanium, makes it possible to adequately assess the postoperative patient and minimize metallic susceptibility artifacts by modifying magnet field strength (1.5T being superior to 3T), increasing bandwidth, decreasing slice selection size, increasing matrix size, and use of long echo train lengths with spin-echo sequences.[19] Traditionally, gadolinium-based contrast is administered when evaluating for masses or bone lesions. The clinical benefits of MRI outweigh the cost when characterizing bone lesions or masses, supporting the role imaging plays in diagnosing neoplasms.[16] Imaging evaluation of the musculoskeletal system is not limited to plain radiographs and MRIs. It is important to remember that nuclear medicine bone scans, positron emission tomography, ultrasound, and computed tomography all contribute to achieving an accurate diagnosis. ## Issues of Concern Issues of concern regarding MRI revolve around nonionizing radiation when imaging vulnerable patient populations, the use of contrast agents, and logistical concerns for the patients, some of which are addressed earlier in this topic. When ordering an MRI, it is important to scrutinize the clinical question, the patient’s clinical status, psychological factors, and the length of time required for the exam and weigh the risks and benefits. - There is abundant information published about gadolinium and paramagnetic contrast agents. A glomerular filtration rate of less than 30 is a contraindication to receiving gadolinium contrast. Due to impaired contrast