looking for signs and symptoms of other additional causes of pulmonary hypertension (autoimmune pathology, valvular heart disease, drug-induced PH, and infectious disease) are necessary when evaluating patients for suspected HAPH. ## Evaluation Patients who present with signs and symptoms of shortness of breath, dyspnea, fatigue, or peripheral edema should be evaluated for heart failure and pulmonary hypertension. To diagnose HAPH, the patient must reside at an elevation greater than 2,500 meters.[1] Other diagnoses besides pulmonary hypertension should always be considered. Diagnostic tests that can be utilized are an EKG, echocardiogram, chest X-ray, pulmonary function tests, or a right-sided heart catheterization with pulmonary angiography. - An EKG can be consistent with chronic right heart strain and have findings of right ventricular hypertrophy, right bundle branch block, and tall p-waves in inferior leads. - An echocardiogram can show a dilated right ventricle and right atrium and increased pulmonary artery pressure. Left ventricular function and ejection fraction must also be assessed to rule out left-sided heart failure. - The chest X-ray may be normal or show signs of cardiomegaly or pulmonary vascular congestion. - Pulmonary function tests are useful in excluding diagnoses such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, or other interstitial lung diseases. Right-sided heart catheterization and pulmonary angiography are the most important diagnostic tools for establishing a definitive diagnosis. A mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP) greater than 30 mmHg or systolic PAP of greater than 50 mmHg is diagnostic for pulmonary hypertension.[1] If possible, it is important to attempt catheterization and angiography at the altitude of residence. ## Treatment / Management Limited data is currently available to guide the long-term management of HAPH. Several studies have shown that some treatments recommended for managing other causes of pulmonary hypertension have improved symptoms and mPAPs. Patients suffering from HAPH should be advised to move to lower altitudes. Some studies have shown that mPAPs for patients have normalized within 2 years of returning to lower altitudes.[11] Pharmacological treatments for HAPH can include phosphodiesterase and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. - Phosphodiesterase inhibitors (ie, Sildenafil) block the breakdown of nitrous oxide, promote pulmonary artery vasodilation, and decrease mPAP.[12] - Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors (ie, Acetazolamide) are useful in preventing acute mountain sickness. Studies have also shown a decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance.[1] However, Acetazolamide has not been studied specifically for treating HAPH, and the benefits may be minimal. Due to Acetazolamide's low side effect profile, it is safe