variety of physiological changes. Many organ systems utilize vasodilation to enhance oxygen delivery in hypoxia. In contrast, the lung responds to hypoxia with increased pulmonary vasoconstriction. Blood is shunted away from poorly oxygenated lung zones towards healthy alveoli to minimize V/Q mismatch.[7] This intuitively makes sense in the setting of lobar pneumonia or other focal disease processes involving the lung. In HAPH, all lung fields experience the same degree of hypoxia. Significant vasoconstriction in all parts of the lung and elevated pulmonary artery pressures lead to pulmonary hypertension.[8] The increased pulmonary pressure forces fluid into the lungs, causing acute pulmonary edema. Vascular remodeling plays a major role in the pathophysiology of HAPH. Hypoxia ultimately leads to vascular remodeling by triggering pulmonary vasoconstriction and increased vascular resistance in the small pulmonary veins and arteries. At the cellular level, chronic hypoxia causes channelopathy of both potassium and calcium channels, increasing intracellular calcium. The proliferation of smooth muscle within the pulmonary vasculature occurs, a structure normally devoid of smooth muscle cells (fibroblasts).[1] Vascular remodeling can be a long-term and irreversible sequela of chronic hypoxia and persist despite the removal of the hypoxic stimulus.[9] Endothelial nitrous oxide is theorized to play a role in the development of HAPH. Longstanding hypoxia is known to decrease nitrous oxide synthesis, contributing to the development of pulmonary hypertension.[10][1] Research and comparison of different subpopulations have demonstrated that increased nitrous oxide concentrations in pulmonary endothelium decrease the prevalence of HAPH. Studies have shown that individuals from Tibet have high nitrous oxide concentrations, which correlates with a lower prevalence of HAPH than the South American Andean population.[1] ## History and Physical HAPH presents with similar symptoms to other causes of pulmonary hypertension. The patient may present with 1 or more of the following symptoms: exertional dyspnea, cough, hemoptysis, chest tightness, fatigue, lower extremity swelling, or syncope. On examination, there are signs of right-sided heart failure. Specifically, a loud P2, a right ventricular heave, tricuspid regurgitation, jugular venous distension, peripheral edema, and ascites.[1] All these findings are sequelae of right ventricular hypertrophy and right-sided heart failure. A thorough history and examination looking for signs and symptoms of other additional causes of pulmonary hypertension (autoimmune pathology, valvular heart disease, drug-induced PH, and infectious disease) are necessary when evaluating patients for suspected HAPH. ## Evaluation Patients who present with signs and symptoms of shortness of breath, dyspnea, fatigue, or peripheral edema should be