for invasive hemodynamic monitoring - Availability of a perfusionist and a heart-lung machine in case of device embolization For treating both primary MR and secondary MR, the MitraClip device is the first transcatheter technology to get FDA and Conformité Européenne approval.[49][50] The fourth-generation MitraClip has 4 implant sizes available in 2 different widths and 2 different arm lengths as of 2020.[51] These include the "traditional" width of 4 mm and the newer 6 mm size. Both widths are available in the NT clip with a 9 mm arm length and the XT clip with a 12 mm arm length. The MitraClip comprises 2 rigid arms of cobalt-chromium alloy featuring flexible nitinol-based "grippers." These grippers are equipped with either 4 (in the case of NT/NTW) or 6 (XT/XTW) small hooks, often referred to as "frictional elements," arranged longitudinally. Notably, the longer clip arms (XT/XTW) extend beyond the strict anatomical and morphological criteria set forth by the EVEREST trials, allowing for the treatment of more extensive coaptation gaps and leaflet flails.[52] Expanding the use of XT/XTW devices to patients with more complex anatomies has raised concerns about potential risks, such as leaflet injuries and single leaflet device attachment. These concerns arise from increased leaflet tension resulting from the grasping of more tissue with the XT/XTW devices and the presence of an active locking mechanism and device stiffness. Such increased tension forces have been observed to cause leaflet injury in various anatomical scenarios, including cases with calcified leaflets.[52] A comprehensive examination of the EXPAND registry did not reveal higher rates of adverse leaflet events associated with the long-arm XTR clip system compared to the smaller NTR device.[24] The fourth-generation MitraClip device now offers the advantage of autonomous and controlled gripper actuation. This feature allows for the confirmation and optimization of leaflet gripping while enabling continuous left atrial pressure monitoring through the guiding catheter. The PASCAL transcatheter mitral valve repair technology was first introduced in 2016 and has since been evaluated in a compassionate-use cohort of 23 patients with challenging anatomical characteristics for transcatheter edge-to-edge repair.[53] The latest iteration of the PASCAL system, its second version, has been released, incorporating three integrated catheters: a 22 Fr steerable guide sheath, a maneuverable catheter, and an implant catheter with the device preattached at the distal end. This innovative design allows for a wide range of motion and enhances maneuverability within the left atrium. The PASCAL P10