such as EVEREST 2.[10] Despite this, treating degenerative mitral valve disease with a flail leaflet is an important application of TEER therapy; this condition can be associated with higher mortality risk in older individuals.[25] The presence of a flail leaflet segment can predict a greater acute improvement in mean left atrium pressure after TEER. Improvement in left atrium pressure after TEER has been linked to improved functional status.[26] Treating wider and larger flail gaps is now possible with the availability of longer and wider TEER devices. The development of independent leaflet grasping technology has enabled the treatment of larger and wider flail gaps. This technology is available with the MitraClip G4 and the PASCAL transcatheter mitral valve repair systems, allowing for the initial capture of the flail segment, followed by the steering of the delivery system to the nonflail leaflet. (This ensures both leaflets have a sufficient and stable grasp, thus facilitating the treatment of larger and wider flail gaps.) In its selection criteria, the EVEREST 2 trial only enrolled patients with a primary regurgitant mitral jet originating from the central region of the mitral valve, specifically the A2-P2 segments.[10] However, this approach led to a significant portion of patients with noncentral MR being excluded from TEER treatment, leaving them untreated. Noncentral MR, which originates from the commissures and extends to involve the leaflet edges, constitutes nearly a third of all cases of significant MR.[27][28] When deploying TEER devices in these cases, unique challenges emerge, particularly when dealing with large prolapsing leaflets and flail segments closer to the medial and lateral commissures. The complexity and increased number of chordae tendineae in the commissures elevate the risk of device entanglement and chordal disruption. To mitigate this risk, some operators opt for smaller TEER devices to avoid entanglement, as longer device arms increase the likelihood of such complications. Fortunately, the shorter posterior leaflet length in the commissures often makes short device arms sufficient for achieving adequate tissue grasp (ie, \<9 mm). Extensive use of 3D transthoracic echocardiography and unconventional imaging planes proves valuable in visualizing the full extent of the pathology, informing device choice, and ensuring proper orientation.[29] Patients with severe leaflet prolapse, known as Barlow disease, were not included in the EVEREST trials due to their challenges for a successful TEER. The hypermobility of the leaflets makes them difficult to grasp, necessitating multiple large TEER devices to achieve significant height reduction