particularly useful in those with early grades of encephalopathy. Patients with hepatitis A and E associated ALF should receive supportive care as no specific anti-virals are known to be effective. Patients with acute or reactivation of hepatitis B should receive nucleus(t)ide analogs. Patients with suspected autoimmune hepatitis may benefit from intravenous methylprednisolone at a dose of 60 mg/day. In patients with suspected Amanita phalloides poisoning, gastric lavage, activated charcoal, and intravenous penicillin G at a dose of 1 g/kg/day may be administered. Patients with identifiable Wilson disease or known hepatic vein thrombosis as the etiology for ALF should be considered for a liver transplant. Those with Budd-Chiari syndrome should be considered for TIPS placement as well as anticoagulation therapy. Patients with herpes hepatitis or varicella zoster-related ALF should receive acyclovir (5 to 10 mg/kg IV every 8 hours). Patients with hepatitis due to Cytomegalovirus should be given intravenous ganciclovir at a dose of 5 mg/kg every 12 hours. In pregnant patients with ALF likely secondary to the acute fatty liver of pregnancy or HELLP syndrome, prompt delivery of the fetus is recommended. Also, should the ALF does not resolve, we should again consider possible liver transplantation. **Management of Complications** Every attempt should be made to avoid the development of multi-organ dysfunction. 1. Renal failure: It may occur due to hypovolemia, acute tubular necrosis or hepatorenal syndrome. Vasopressor therapy with norepinephrine or dopamine is indicated in severe hypotension. Renal-replacement may be considered as a bridge for a possible liver transplant. Continuous renal replacement therapy is preferred to hemodialysis in critically ill patients. 1. Sepsis, including aspiration pneumonia and fever, should be covered with broad-spectrum antibiotics. Surveillance cultures of blood, sputum, and urine should be obtained in all patients with ALF. 1. Metabolic disorders: Hypoglycemia occurs due to impaired glycogen production and gluconeogenesis, and will need continuous infusions of 10% to 20% glucose. Hypophosphatemia occurring due to ATP consumption in the setting of hepatocyte necrosis requires aggressive repletion. Alkalosis in ALF is due to hyperventilation, and acidosis with a pH less than 7.3 portends 95% mortality in acetaminophen overdose if the patient does not undergo a liver transplant. Hypoxemia may occur due to aspiration, acute respiratory distress syndrome, or pulmonary hemorrhage. Patients with encephalopathy greater than grade 2 should undergo endotracheal intubation for airway protection. Seizure-like activity may be treated with phenytoin or benzodiazepines. 1. Cerebral edema: The most common cause of