most common causes of ALF worldwide. Other causes include hypoxia-induced liver injury, acute Budd-Chiari syndrome, veno-occlusive disease, Wilson disease, mushroom ingestion, sepsis, autoimmune hepatitis, acute fatty liver of pregnancy, HELLP (hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, low platelet) syndrome, heatstroke, and malignant infiltration (with metastasis from breast cancer, small cell lung cancer, and lymphoma) of the liver.[6][7] Drug-induced hepatitis accounts for almost half the cases of ALF in the United States, of which acetaminophen is the most common cause. Acetaminophen toxicity is dose-dependent. Drug-induced hepatotoxicity could be idiosyncratic, but this is usually rare. Unintentional ingestion of acetaminophen-induced hepatoxicity leading to liver failure is more common in patients with concomitant alcohol abuse and malnourishment.[8] Hepatitis A and E are the leading causes of liver failure, most of which are reported from developing countries. Hepatitis B infection could cause liver failure from both acute infections, as well as, from reactivation of hepatitis B following initiation of immunosuppressive therapy. Co-infection with both hepatitis B and C could lead to ALF, although it is rarely seen with hepatitis C alone. Other viral etiologies of ALF include herpes simplex virus, cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), Parvoviruses, adenovirus, and varicella-zoster virus. ## Epidemiology The etiology and the incidence of ALF vary in developed countries as compared to developing countries. Hepatitis A, B, and E are the leading causes of ALF worldwide and are mostly seen in the developing countries compared to drug-induced liver injury in developed countries.[9] A recent review of the epidemiology of ALF over the past 50 years reveals the relative incidence of ALF secondary to hepatitis A and B to have declined, while that of acetaminophen to have increased, mainly in the United States and Western Europe. ## Pathophysiology The pathophysiology depends on the etiology of the ALF. Most cases of ALF (except acute fatty liver of pregnancy and Reye syndrome) will have massive hepatocyte necrosis and/or apoptosis leading to liver failure. Hepatocyte necrosis occurs due to ATP depletion causing cellular swelling and cell membrane disruption. The pathophysiology of cerebral edema and hepatic encephalopathy is seen in ALF is multi-factorial and includes altered blood-brain barrier (BBB) secondary to inflammatory mediators leading to microglial activation, accumulation of glutamine secondary to ammonia crossing the BBB and subsequent oxidative stress leading to depletion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and guanosine triphosphate (GTP). This ultimately leads to astrocyte swelling and cerebral edema. ## Histopathology Only if the clinical interpretation through