BNPs may be seen in various cardiac and noncardiac diseases, as previously mentioned. Therefore, evaluating abnormal BNP levels with further cardiac testing is necessary.[57] Particular care is needed when interpreting an elevated BNP in patients with multiple comorbidities, such as those with renal failure, to identify the cause of the elevation.[19] **Relevance** Heart failure is a significant and growing cause of morbidity and mortality in the United States; it is the leading cause of hospitalization in those aged 65 and older and is responsible for 10% of all healthcare expenditures.[56] Many symptoms of heart failure exacerbations are not specific to the disease process; therefore, identifying a biomarker that could assist in the diagnosis process was critical. BNP measurement is a highly sensitive, low-cost, and rapid test that can be utilized in hospitals to assist in diagnosing heart failure.[58] ## Quality Control and Lab Safety For non-waived tests, laboratory regulations require, at the minimum, analysis of at least two levels of control materials once every 24 hours. If necessary, laboratories can assay QC samples more frequently to ensure accurate results. Quality control samples should be assayed after calibration or maintenance of an analyzer to verify the correct method performance.[59] To minimize QC when performing tests for which manufacturers’ recommendations are less than those required by the regulatory agency (such as once per month), the labs can develop an individualized quality control plan (IQCP) that involves performing a risk assessment of potential sources of error in all phases of testing and putting in place a QC plan to reduce the likelihood of errors.[60] Westgard multi-rules are used to evaluate the quality control runs. If a run is declared out of control, investigate the system (instrument, standards, controls, etc.) to determine the cause of the problem. Do not perform any analysis until the problem has been resolved.[61] Consider all specimens, control materials, and calibrator materials as potentially infectious. Exercise the usual precautions required for handling all laboratory reagents. Disposal of all waste material should be in accordance with local guidelines. Wear gloves, a lab coat, and safety glasses when handling human blood specimens. Place all plastic tips, sample cups, and gloves that come into contact with blood in a biohazard waste container.[62] Discard all disposable glassware into sharps waste containers. Protect all work surfaces with disposable absorbent bench top paper, discarded into biohazard waste containers weekly or whenever blood contamination occurs. Wipe all