normal physical examination. Thus, laboratory testing plays an important role in diagnosis. In a neonate with suspected sepsis, a blood culture should be immediately drawn. It is recommended to draw at least 1 ml of blood as low-level bacteremia may not be detected with smaller aliquotes [10]. Cultures should also be drawn from the catheter site if 1 is in place. Urine cultures are usually not recommended for evaluating EOS but should be considered for evaluating LOS [11]. Lumbar puncture with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis and culture should be evaluated in any infant with positive blood culture or if the neonate has a clinical presentation that suggests central nervous system involvement. Lumbar puncture should be repeated within 48 hours of therapy to confirm sterility of the CSF. New technology using polymerase chain reaction is currently being studied as a diagnostic tool to identify sepsis and the causative organism faster than blood cultures [12] CSF analysis may reveal: - Elevated protein level - Elevated WBC - Positive cultures - Decreased glucose concentration - Positive polymerase chain reaction Complete blood count with differential and C-reactive protein is also an important lab test, often collected on a serial basis. These indices are poor at identifying neonatal sepsis but are better used for ruling it out [10]. Neutropenia has better specificity than neutrophilia as a marker of neonatal sepsis [13]. An elevated immature to total neutrophil ratio of more than 0.27 has a very high negative predictive accuracy (99%) but an inadequate positive predictive value (25%), as it may be elevated in up to 50% of uninfected infants [14][15]. These counts may be falsely elevated, especially after birth. It is better to perform complete blood count 6 to 12 hours to avoid the normal physiological complete blood count parameters' changes seen immediately after delivery[16]. C-reactive protein levels start rising within 6 to 8 hours during an infectious episode in neonates and peak at about 24 hours [17]. Persistently normal C-reactive protein levels provide strong evidence against bacterial sepsis. This good correlation can support the clinical judgment of stopping antibiotics in an otherwise well-appearing neonate. Other inflammatory markers, including procalcitonin, haptoglobin, and cytokines, can also be obtained to support the diagnosis or evaluate treatment efficacy. Radiography of the chest may be performed to look for any pulmonary findings in a neonate with respiratory symptoms or signs. ## Treatment / Management Empiric antibiotic treatment should be