through the vaginal canal. Typical bacterial pathogens for EOS include group B streptococcus (GBS), Escherichia coli, coagulase-negative Staphylococcus, Haemophilus influenza, and Listeria monocytogenes. Maternal factors that increase the risk of neonatal sepsis include chorioamnionitis, GBS colonization, delivery before 37 weeks, and prolonged rupture of membranes greater than 18 hours [3]. LOS usually occurs via transmitting pathogens from the surrounding environment after delivery, such as contact from healthcare workers or caregivers. A percentage of LOS may also be caused by a late manifestation of vertically transmitted infection. Infants requiring intravascular catheter insertion or other invasive procedures that disrupt the mucosa are at increased risk for developing LOS. Preterm neonates are at higher risk for sepsis/infection than term neonates. The increased susceptibility for infections seen in preterm neonates is mainly due to : - Deficient immune system, mainly due to decreased IgG antibodies and incompetent opsonization and complement activation - Comprised innate immune system, caused primarily by the immature epithelial barrier - The increased need for invasive devices (vascular access, endotracheal tube, feeding tubes, and urinary tract catheters) due to associated severe illnesses Coagulase-negative staphylococcal species, especially Staphylococcus epidermis, are the leading cause, responsible for over 50% of LOS cases in industrialized countries. However, many other bacterial and viral pathogens can be associated with LOS [3]. ## Epidemiology The epidemiology of neonatal sepsis has been changing with time [4]. The incidence of EOS has decreased since the 1990s due to the introduction of universal screening of GBS in pregnant women and intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis[5]. However, rates of LOS have remained relatively the same. Escherichia coli now accounts for more cases of EOS [6]. The incidence of EOS with positive blood cultures in the United States is estimated to be 0.77 to 1 per 1,000 live births [7][8]. Due to the nonspecific neonatal presentation for sepsis and the high risk of mortality and morbidity without treatment, many asymptomatic neonates undergo a sepsis workup if risk factors are present and/or clinically indicated. Although approximately 7% to 13% of all neonates are treated for sepsis, only 3% to 8% have positive cultures [3]. Maternal administration of antibiotics and the low blood volume obtained for blood culture could explain the low rate of positive blood cultures. The incidence of sepsis is significantly higher in premature infants, as well as those with very low birth weight (\<1000 grams). African American infants have an increased risk of GBS