Other inflammatory markers, including procalcitonin, haptoglobin, and cytokines, can also be obtained to support the diagnosis or evaluate treatment efficacy. Radiography of the chest may be performed to look for any pulmonary findings in a neonate with respiratory symptoms or signs. ## Treatment / Management Empiric antibiotic treatment should be started when sepsis is clinically suspected, even without confirmatory lab data. In general, antimicrobial resistance patterns of common bacteria in the neonatal intensive care unit should guide antibiotics' initial choice. Typical treatment regimens include intravenous (IV) ampicillin and aminoglycosides to cover the most common pathogens in EOS (GBS, _E. coli_ , and _L. monocytogenes)_ [10]. With LOS, nosocomial coverage should be provided for hospital-acquired pathogens such as coagulase-negative _Staphylococcus_ , _S. aureus_ , and _Pseudomonas_ species. It is recommended that these patients be started on a combination of vancomycin and an aminoglycoside [18]. Aminoglycosides have poor CNS penetration; for that reason, a third-generation cephalosporin should be considered if CNS infection is suspected [19]. However, ceftriaxone should be avoided, as it can lead to hyperbilirubinemia and the serious precipitation of calcium-ceftriaxone crystals. Increasing antibiotic resistance is a concern for neonatal sepsis. Antibiotic stewardship teams play an essential role in preventing the unjustified prolonged use of antibiotics [20]. ## Differential Diagnosis Given the nonspecific signs of neonatal sepsis, several differentials must be considered, including but not limited to: - Infection due to other agents (virus, fungal or parasite) - Congenital heart disease - Neonatal encephalopathy - Metabolic disease - Prematurity and associated complications (respiratory distress syndrome, intraventricular hemorrhage, apnea of prematurity, and others) - Hypo or hyperthyroidism - Transient tachypnea of the newborn - Meconium aspiration - Hypoglycemia ## Treatment Planning The treatment regimen for neonatal sepsis varies based on various risk factors and conditions. The typical antibiotics used are discussed above. The duration of therapy can vary based on the isolated organisms, the type of infection, and the presence of any neonatal complications. Neonates with positive blood cultures typically respond to treatment within 24 to 48 hours, and repeat cultures and studies are usually negative by 72 hours [3]. Persistent positive blood cultures should alert the clinicians to a seeding focus that should be managed (central venous access, cardiac vegetations, abscesses, or osteomyelitis). Many providers would continue intervenous therapy for 7 to 14 days based on the organism or longer if meningitis was suspected [18]. Increasing the duration of antibiotics may