of antibiotics and the low blood volume obtained for blood culture could explain the low rate of positive blood cultures. The incidence of sepsis is significantly higher in premature infants, as well as those with very low birth weight (\<1000 grams). African American infants have an increased risk of GBS and LOS, likely secondary to the higher rate of GBS carrier rates in African American females. Males have a higher risk of sepsis and meningitis, especially with gram-negative enteric bacilli [3]. ## Pathophysiology The immature immune system is the major contributing factor to increased neonatal susceptibility to sepsis. The immature function of polymorphonuclear neutrophils, macrophages, and T lymphocytes makes these cells incapable of carrying out a complete inflammatory response in neonates. Furthermore, neonates have limited immunoglobulins at birth and cannot generate a quantitative and/or qualitative adequate mounting response against infectious agents. The insufficient time that premature has in the uterus decreases the transfer of immune globulins to the fetus. This deficiency in immunoglobulins puts premature infants at much higher risk for sepsis when compared to term infants [9]. ## History and Physical Signs and symptoms of neonatal sepsis can range from nonspecific or vague symptoms to hemodynamic collapse. Early symptoms may include irritability, lethargy, or poor feeding. Others may quickly develop respiratory distress, fever, hypothermia, or hypotension with poor perfusion and shock. Sometimes, the diagnosis may only be suspected based on laboratory findings, which may reveal hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia, acidosis, or hyperbilirubinemia. A high index of suspicion is, therefore, necessary for timely diagnosis. Therefore, physicians must be aware of any factors that may increase an infant’s risk of developing sepsis. Prematurity and very low birth weights are also important risk factors to consider. Maternal factors that put neonates at risk of EOS include GBS status, the presence of chorioamnionitis, infant prematurity, or prolonged rupture of membranes [3]. Consider whether the patient has indwelling foreign bodies such as a central venous catheter or endotracheal tube for late-onset infection, depends on parenteral nutrition, or receives proton-pump inhibitor or histamine-2 blocking therapy. ## Evaluation Neonates with bacteremia can be asymptomatic and have a normal physical examination. Thus, laboratory testing plays an important role in diagnosis. In a neonate with suspected sepsis, a blood culture should be immediately drawn. It is recommended to draw at least 1 ml of blood as low-level bacteremia may not be detected with smaller aliquotes [10]. Cultures should also