blood cultures should alert the clinicians to a seeding focus that should be managed (central venous access, cardiac vegetations, abscesses, or osteomyelitis). Many providers would continue intervenous therapy for 7 to 14 days based on the organism or longer if meningitis was suspected [18]. Increasing the duration of antibiotics may be necessary for some situations. Increasing the incidence of antibiotic resistance necrotizing enterocolitis or death are 2 crucial principles that should motivate clinicians to tailor antimicrobial therapy if clinically indicated[21]. The treatment for suspect EOS with negative cultures is also variable. Cultures can be negative for various reasons, including maternal antibiotic use, initiation of antibiotics before obtaining cultures, or false-negative tests. Determining adequate antibiotic therapy without any positive cultures can make determining the duration of therapy difficult. Most neonates with highly suspected clinical sepsis with negative culture receive 7-10 days of antimicrobial therapy [3]. ## Prognosis Mortality rates are inversely proportional to gestational age, such that preterm or younger neonates have higher mortality rates than term neonates [22]. _E. coli_ has also been found to be associated with a higher mortality rate when compared with GBS. As noted above, the introduction of GBS intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis has decreased mortality rates caused by GBS. The treatment of clinically suspected neonates with negative cultures has also significantly decreased mortality rates. Preterm infants with sepsis may develop impaired neurodevelopment. Also, others may have vision impairment. Those infants pretreated with aminoglycosides may also develop ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity. ## Complications Neonatal sepsis remains a significant contributor to morbidity and mortality in neonates. Prematurity and delayed treatment are commonly associated with adverse outcomes. VLBW infants have been found to have a higher risk of chronic lung disease, and extremely low birth weight infants are at a greater risk of neurodevelopmental risks, such as hearing and visual deficits, cerebral palsy, and impaired psychomotor and mental development [23]. On the other hand, the unnecessary overuse of antibiotics can increase the chances of severe candidiasis and multi-drug resistant organisms. ## Consultations Pediatricians or neonatologists can adequately manage neonatal sepsis. However, the following subspecialties and ancillary services can provide essential support in complicated cases: - Pediatric surgery: to manage associated surgical complications (gastrointestinal perforation, abscess, necrotizing fasciitis, omphalitis, and others) - Pediatric infectious disease specialist if the infant is not responding to antibiotics or if there is concern regarding adequate antimicrobial coverage - Pediatric pharmacists can provide meaningful input and