phenobarbital have been recommended as initial drugs of choice for aborting seizures lasting at least 5 minutes, with similar efficacy.[31] - IV acyclovir should be started early during the course of illness in patients with suspicion for HSV encephalitis (acute febrile encephalopathy, new-onset seizures, asymmetric medial temporal lobe involvement, and lymphocytic pleocytosis with RBCs on CSF analysis), pending HSV-PCR results in CSF. It has been shown to reduce mortality and morbidity when started early in the course of illness. - In patients with benzodiazepine refractory SE, a second-line antiepileptic agent should be attempted immediately at appropriate doses. In a randomized control trial, IV levetiracetam, IV fosphenytoin, and IV sodium valproate were shown to have similar safety and efficacy in established SE patients.[34] The effectiveness of each subsequent antiepileptic added in aborting status epilepticus decreases after initiating the first antiepileptic agent - If seizures continue despite treatment with a second-line agent, another anti-epileptic agent should be used before progressing to IV anesthetic agents. IV phenytoin/fosphenytoin, phenobarbital, valproate, levetiracetam, and lacosamide; have been noted to be effective in the treatment of established SE with no preference over each other.[32] Hence one of these agents, either as single or in combination, can be used for treatment. By definition, patients who fail to respond to first and second-line therapies progress to refractory SE and require treatment with continuous IV anesthetic agents to achieve seizure control. - Current guidelines recommend using continuous IV infusion of anesthetic agents for seizure suppression or burst suppression coma for 24-48 hours before attempting to wean.[2] - Midazolam: Load with 0.2 mg/kg IV followed by continuous infusion at 0.05 to 2 mg/kg/hr. - Propofol: 2 mg/kg IV bolus followed by maintenance infusion at 20 to 250 mcg/kg/min. - Pentobarbital: 5 mg/kg IV bolus, continuous infusion at 1 to 10 mg/kg/hr. - Ketamine: Load with 0.5-4 mg/kg followed by maintenance infusion at 0.3 to 5 mg/kg/hr. - IV midazolam and propofol are preferred over longer-acting agents like pentobarbital as long-acting agents are associated with a prolonged need for mechanical ventilation and cardiovascular complications.[35][36] However, higher doses and prolonged treatment of propofol have been associated with propofol infusion syndrome leading to higher mortality and complications than midazolam and ketamine. Patients with NORSE (or FIRES) often have a poor response to antiepileptic medications, and continuous IV anesthetic agents should be started without further delay, given the disease process's refractory nature. Multiple anesthetic agents