from January 1, 2018. Outside the United States, it was accepted on January 1, 2017, by the Union of International Cancer Control (UICC). For the eighth edition, Ithe International Association of the Study of Lung Cancer (IASLC) studied and analyzed data from 16 countries, including approximately 95,000 patients from 1999 to 2010.[38] Tumor A primary tumor is divided into five categories, and each category is then further subdivided depending on the size, location, and invasion of surrounding structures by the tumor. T0 - No primary tumor - T Carcinoma in situ T1 (less than 3 cm) - T1mi: minimally invasive tumor - T1a: superficial tumor confined to central airways (tracheal or bronchial wall) - T1a: Less than 1 cm - T1b: Greater than 1 cm but less than 2cm - T1C: Greater than 2 cm but less than 3cm T2 - T2: Greater than 3 cm but less than 5 cm - T2a: Greater than 3 cm but less than 4cm - T2b: Greater than 4 cm but less than 5cm - Also considered a T2 tumor if involving main bronchus but not carina, visceral pleura or causes atelectasis to the hilum. T3 - T3: Greater than 5 cm but less than 7 cm) - T3 Inv: invasion of the chest wall, pericardium, or phrenic nerve - T3 Satell: separate tumor nodules in the same lobe - Also considered T3 tumor if involving the pericardium, phrenic nerve, chest wall, or separate tumor nodules in the same lobe T4 - T4: Greater than 7 cm) - T4inv: Invading the above structures - T4Ipsi nod: Nodules in an ipsilateral lobe It is also considered T4 tumor if it involves the heart, esophagus, trachea, carina, mediastinum, great vessels, recurrent laryngeal nerve, spine or tumor nodules in the different ipsilateral lobe. Invasion of the diaphragm is now considered a T4 tumor compared to a T3 tumor in the seventh edition of TNM classification.[39] **Thoracic Lymph Nodes** Lung cancer staging also depends upon the extension of cancer to the lymph nodes corresponding to the primary tumor as well as the opposite hemithorax. It is imperative to rule out lymph node metastasis before attempting curative surgery. Lung resection in itself carries high morbidity and mortality. Therefore, it should not be attempted if a cure is not possible. Historically, thoracic lymph nodes were first classified in the 1960s by Naruke. This map was accepted by North America,