factors for mortality include the need for ventilator support due to HAP and septic shock. - For patients with HAP with no risk factors for MRSA infection and not at high risk of mortality, prescribe an antibiotic with activity against MSSA like piperacillin-tazobactam, cefepime, levofloxacin, imipenem, or meropenem. - For patients with HAP who have factors for _Pseudomonas_ or other gram-negative infection or high risk for mortality, prescribe antibiotics from 2 different classes with activity against _P. aeruginosa_ (weak recommendation, very low-quality evidence). Other patients with HAP may be prescribed a single antibiotic active against _P. aeruginosa,_ like piperacillin-tazobactam, cefepime, ceftazidime, levofloxacin, ciprofloxacin, imipenem, meropenem, amikacin, gentamicin, and aztreonam.[2] **Continuation Therapy** All patients with HAP or VAP should be reevaluated for clinical response and microbiologic results after initial empiric antimicrobial therapy. - For patients in whom the causative organism has been identified, the empiric regimen should be narrowed according to the pathogen's susceptibility. - For patients who are clinically improving and who do not have an identified pathogen, empiric treatment for _S. aureus or_ multidrug-resistant, gram-negative bacilli can be stopped if these organisms have not been detected in culture from a high-quality specimen within 48 to 72 hours. - Patients who have not improved within 72 hours of starting empiric antibiotics should be evaluated for complications, other sites of infection, and alternate diagnoses. If the diagnosis of pneumonia appears certain, and the patient has risk factors for drug-resistant pathogens, additional pulmonary cultures should be done, and the empiric regimen should be expanded to cover additional resistant organisms.[2] Duration of antibiotic therapy in most patients with HAP or VAP of 7 days appears to be as effective as longer durations and may limit the emergence of resistant organisms. However, for patients with a severe illness, bacteremia, slow response to therapy, immunocompromise, and complications such as empyema or lung abscess, a longer duration of therapy is indicated.[2] ## Differential Diagnosis - Acinetobacter - Adenovirus - Bacterial sepsis - Burn wound infections - Clostridioides - Colitis - Croup - Enterobacter infections - Enterococcal infections - E-coli infections ## Prognosis Many studies have found that HAP is associated with an increased risk of death. The all-cause mortality associated with VAP ranges from 20 to 50% in different studies. Variables associated with increased mortality include: - The severity of illness at the time of diagnosis (eg., shock, coma, respiratory failure, acute respiratory distress syndrome) -