to a few hours. Due to the short half-life of PET tracer, pharmacological stress is preferred in these patients. In patients who are unable to exercise or achieve an adequate heart rate response, there are several pharmacological agents to achieve cardiac stress. Broadly speaking, there are two types, vasodilator or inotropic/chronotropic drugs. Examples of vasodilators are adenosine, dipyridamole, and regadenoson. They primarily cause coronary vasodilation and increase coronary blood flow during stress, which is 3 to 5 times the resting blood flow. The flow through the normal coronary arteries increases up to fourfold during coronary vasodilation and radiotracer uptake.[6] Flow-limiting stenosis in the coronary artery causes a relative reduction in blood flow during stress leading to reduced radiotracer uptake, reflecting as a perfusion defect. 1. Adenosine acts via the A2A receptor on coronary arteries.[7] Its effect on other receptors such It has a very short half-life, especially red blood cells, and endothelial cells have rapid uptake. It is administered via infusion pump at the dose of 140 mcg/kg/minute, typically over six minutes, then radionuclide is injected over 10 seconds, and adenosine infusion is continued for additional 3 minutes.[8] A shorter duration protocol of 4 minutes has been studied and has shown equally effective results. Simultaneous low-level exercise is safe, well-tolerated, and provides improved image quality. 1. Dipyridamole blocks the cellular uptake of adenosine. Its half-life is 30 to 35 minutes, metabolized primarily by the liver, and excreted in small amounts by urine. It is administered via an infusion pump at the dose of 140 mcg/kg per minute for 4 minutes with a maximum dose of 0.56 mg/kg. The radionuclide is administered 3 to 5 minutes after the infusion. Aminophylline is often used as a reversal agent to reduce side effects. Simultaneous low-level exercise improves image quality, allows us to assess exercise capacity, and risk-stratify future cardiac events. 1. Regadenoson is a selective A2A receptor blocker on vascular smooth muscles. Adenosine and dipyridamole act on the A2A receptor and the A1 receptor on the atrioventricular node and A2B, A3, A4, responsible for common side effects such as AV block and bronchospasm, respectively. Regadenoson has a rapid onset of 30 seconds and lasts about 2 to 5 minutes and an intermediate phase of 30 minutes in contrast to adenosine, which has a half-life of 5 seconds. Reagadesone allows for more convenient administration and monitoring. It is administered at a dose of 400