respectively. Regadenoson has a rapid onset of 30 seconds and lasts about 2 to 5 minutes and an intermediate phase of 30 minutes in contrast to adenosine, which has a half-life of 5 seconds. Reagadesone allows for more convenient administration and monitoring. It is administered at a dose of 400 mcg in a prefilled single-dose syringe over 10 seconds, followed immediately by a 5 ml saline flush.[9] The radionuclide is administered after the saline flush. Regadenoson has an added advantage over adenosine and dipyridamole as it can be given to patients who begin with exercise SPECT MPI but are unable to achieve the cardiac workload. Examples of inotropic/chronotropic agents are dobutamine with or without atropine. 1. Dobutamine is administered over graded format starting at 5 mcg/kg and gradually increasing it to 10, 20, 30, and 40 mcg/kg/minute at every 3-minute interval.[10] The standard end-point of dobutamine rMPI is to achieve a heart rate of at least 85 percent of the age-predicted maximum heart rate. Atropine at a dose of 0.5 mg at each time to a total dose of 2 mg can be administered as needed to achieve the desired heart rate. The procedure should be terminated if there is any significant arrhythmia, hypotension less than 90 mmHg, or severe hypertension. Regadenoson is becoming increasingly popular and is the primary vasodilator used because of its ease of use and better tolerability. The most commonly used radioisotope for SPECT imaging is 99m-technetium labeled perfusion agents such as 99m-Tc-sestamibi, 99m-Tc-tetrofosmin. The use of thallium-201 is becoming increasingly less common as Tc99 has higher energy, less attenuation, and less scatter of photons. - Single isotope protocol is done with Tc99m and can be done as a one-day or two-day protocol. - One-day rest/stress (or stress/rest) study: Radiopharmaceutical agent used for the second injection is generally three times higher than the first dose. Images acquisition is performed 15 to 60 minutes after the injection, or it can be delayed up to 2 hours depending on the type of stress – exercise vs. pharmacological. Radiation exposure can be reduced substantially by using a weight-based radiopharmaceutical agent and a newer solid-state camera system. - Two-day Tc99m- based protocol: radiopharmaceutical agent is used at the same dosage for rest and stress images. This protocol is more useful in larger patients since low-dose tracer may make image acquisition difficult. But it is cumbersome for patients to perform this