imaging utilizes rubidium-82 and 13-N ammonia tracers. Rubidium-83 is widely used because it does not require on-site cyclotrons, unlike 13-N ammonia, but it requires a rapid delivery system because its half-life is 75 seconds. PET imaging is different from SPECT because it requires additional external radiation sources for image acquisition and image acquisition after tracer administration. Both images are then used for attenuation correction. Rubidium-81 causes approximately 3 millisieverts radiation exposure, while N-13 ammonia causes 2 millisieverts radiation exposure. ## Complications Major complications usually do not occur with stress testing. Some of the side effects associated with pharmacological agents are described here. Adenosine might cause wheezing, chest pain with possible ST-segment changes, hypotension. Symptoms rapidly resolve because of the short half-life, with rarely requiring aminophylline to reverse the effects. More common minor side effects are nausea, flushing, dyspnea, and headache. Serious adverse events with dipyridamole, such as nonfatal myocardial infarction, cardiac death rate, sustained ventricular tachycardia, have been reported, albeit rare. And some minor side effects such as chest pain, headache, and dizziness may occur. Symptoms are completely reversible after the administration of aminophylline. Side effects of regadenoson and dobutamine are as mentioned above. ## Patient Safety and Education Patient education prior to the stress test is important. The most common side effects are headache and flushed feeling. Procedures can occur over a day or two. Following instructions should be given prior to the procedure: - Patients should avoid caffeinated drinks at least 12 hours before the test. - They should be no smoking or tobacco products for at least 8 hours before the test. - Fast for at least 4 hours before the test. - Wear comfortable shoes, especially if the stress test is based on exercise. - The patient should not be around babies or small children for the rest of the day because of residual radiation from your exam. - Avoid medications such as nitroglycerin, theophylline, isosorbide, PDE-t inhibitors if undergoing a regadenoson stress test. - Avoid beta-blockers and vasodilators if undergoing a dobutamine stress test. ## Clinical Significance Coronary artery disease is becoming an increasing cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. In 2020, it was estimated that deaths from CAD might increase to 11.1 million globally.[11] Healthy lifestyle choices such as exercise, dietary interventions, reducing weight, and smoking cessation can substantially reduce CAD.[12] Cardiac stress testing is an extraordinary diagnostic and prognostic tool for patients with