agent and a newer solid-state camera system. - Two-day Tc99m- based protocol: radiopharmaceutical agent is used at the same dosage for rest and stress images. This protocol is more useful in larger patients since low-dose tracer may make image acquisition difficult. But it is cumbersome for patients to perform this entire stress/rest in 2 days. - Stress only: This is a newly developing model based on the theory that the resting images may not be required in patients whose stress images are normal. This allows for lesser radiation exposure and shorter study time. But should be careful in-patient selection, and patients with no prior abnormal rMPI images, no history of CAD or MI without revascularization or cardiomyopathy, and weight more than 300 lbs should be selected. Diagnostic value is higher in patients who undergo ECG-gated technetium-99m sestamibi SPECT rMPI with attenuation correction. However, if the stress images are abnormal, the patient should undergo rest images the following day with a higher radiopharmaceutical dose. Stress-only using T99m usually causes approximately 3 millisieverts radiation exposure. - Dual isotope: This protocol is based on using two different isotopes at rest and stress. TI-201 is used at rest and images acquired within 10 minutes, followed by a Tc99m-based agent during stress image acquisition. The advantage of this protocol is the almost immediate acquisition of rest images, but the major disadvantage is, it is associated with higher radiation exposure, difficulty interpreting the data because of different resolutions at rest, and stress. Dual isotope usually causes approximately 22 millisieverts radiation exposure. - TI-201: This is less commonly utilized because of higher radiation exposure. Stress image acquisition should be done within 10 minutes of TI-201 injection. Unlike the Tc99m based protocol, stress injection should be performed first. If the patient has difficulty breathing with exercise, image acquisition is delayed to avoid myocardial creep – an artifact from the upward movement of the diaphragm. If the patient can achieve stage III or higher Bruce protocol, image acquisition should be delayed up to 15 minutes post-stress, and the respiratory rate should be less than 25 cycles per minute. PET imaging utilizes rubidium-82 and 13-N ammonia tracers. Rubidium-83 is widely used because it does not require on-site cyclotrons, unlike 13-N ammonia, but it requires a rapid delivery system because its half-life is 75 seconds. PET imaging is different from SPECT because it requires additional external radiation sources for image acquisition