be conducted under the oversight of an AASM-accredited comprehensive sleep medicine program, with established written policies and procedures. - An experienced sleep technologist or technician must apply the sensors or provide direct patient education on proper sensor application. - The portable monitoring device must display raw data and allow a trained sleep technologist or technician to manually score or edit automated scoring. - A board-certified sleep specialist, or an individual meeting the eligibility criteria for the sleep medicine certification examination, must review the raw data from portable monitoring using scoring criteria that align with current AASM standards.[39] Under these specified conditions, portable monitoring may be used for unattended studies in the patient's home. - A follow-up visit should be scheduled to review test results for all patients undergoing portable monitoring. - Patients with a high pretest probability of moderate-to-severe OSA who receive negative or technically inadequate portable monitoring results should undergo in-laboratory PSG. Unattended portable monitoring and home sleep tests are suitable for adults with a high pretest probability of sleep apnea and no significant medical comorbidities, such as advanced congestive heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or neurological disorders. These are level 3 sleep tests, which include pulse oximetry, heart rate monitoring, temperature and pressure sensors to detect nasal and oral airflow, resistance belts around the chest and abdomen to detect motion, and a sensor to monitor body position. Moderate and severe sleep apnea can be detected using these tests. However, due to the potential underestimation of the apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) relative to the total recording time (which may exceed the total sleep time measured in an in-laboratory study), mild sleep apnea may go undiagnosed. In such cases, a repeat in-laboratory study may be necessary. A proposed algorithm for the appropriate use of portable monitoring and in-laboratory PSG is outlined in the **Image.** Sleep Apnea Testing Modalities. One of the main limitations of home sleep testing is that most studies use total recording time as the denominator for calculating the AHI, rather than total sleep time, due to the absence of EEG sensors to differentiate sleep from wakefulness. This approach can lead to an underestimation of the AHI by at least 20%.[41] The AASM recommends using the term respiratory event index (REI) to differentiate the indices of respiratory events generated by a home sleep study (without recorded sleep). The AHI and REI represent the average number of obstructive events