120-Second Window Showing Obstructive Sleep Apnea). Scoring respiratory events in adults relies on 4 primary channels: - Oronasal thermal sensor - Nasal air pressure transducer - Inductance plethysmography (with esophageal manometry or a pressure catheter may be used as alternatives) - Pulse oximetry [38] A snoring monitor is a required channel but does not contribute to the scoring of respiratory events. According to the American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM), hypopnea is defined by either 1 of 2 criteria: - A reduction in airflow of at least 30% for more than 10 seconds, accompanied by at least 4% oxygen desaturation (eg, Medicare criteria). - A reduction in airflow of at least 30% for more than 10 seconds, associated with either at least 3% oxygen desaturation or an arousal from sleep on EEG (recommended AASM criteria).[39] Scoring apnea requires both of the following criteria to be met: - A drop in the peak signal excursion by more than or equal to 90% of the pre-event baseline flow. - A duration of the flow reduction of more than or equal to 10 seconds. As mentioned below, apneas are usually further classified based on respiratory effort, which is determined by respiratory inductance plethysmography signals (see **Image.** Polysomnography Showing Central and Obstructive Sleep Apneas). - Obstructive sleep apnea: If an increased effort is present throughout the entire apnea. - Central sleep apnea: If no effort is detected throughout the entire apnea. Mixed apnea is characterized by an absence of effort during the initial portion of the event, followed by the resumption of effort in the latter part of the apnea. Home sleep tests or portable monitoring have gained popularity due to their accessibility and lower cost. However, portable monitoring should be conducted following specific rules and procedures as outlined by the AASM Unattended Portable Monitoring Task Force guidelines.[40] These guidelines include the following criteria: - At a minimum, the portable monitoring device must record airflow, respiratory effort, and blood oxygenation. - The airflow, effort, and oximetric biosensors traditionally used in in-laboratory PSG should also be utilized in portable monitoring. - Portable monitoring testing must be conducted under the oversight of an AASM-accredited comprehensive sleep medicine program, with established written policies and procedures. - An experienced sleep technologist or technician must apply the sensors or provide direct patient education on proper sensor application. - The portable monitoring device must display raw data and allow a