0.4 mg given intravenously every 1 to 3 minutes. This approach ensures a more controlled reversal of opiate effects and reduces the risk of precipitating withdrawal symptoms.[32] Rapid administration of naloxone in these patients can trigger withdrawal, which is distressing for the patient and potentially places healthcare workers at risk of injury. Before naloxone administration, the patient should receive 100% fraction of inspired oxygen assisted by bag-valve ventilation until they become more alert and cooperative or until naloxone is administered. The onset of naloxone’s action is immediate, with peak response occurring within 3 to 8 minutes. A repeat dose may be indicated if the patient continues to show signs of opiate toxicity. Starting with a low dose of naloxone is important, typically 0.05 to 0.1 mg intravenously, gradually titrating upward to minimize the risk of withdrawal symptoms, such as nausea, vomiting, agitation, pain, and aspiration. This careful dosing is especially crucial in patients suspected of ingesting opiates combined with other CNS depressants such as alcohol, tricyclic antidepressants, and benzodiazepines. Peripheral intravenous access may be difficult in some patients with opiate overdose and long-term OUD. In such cases, 2 mg of naloxone may be administered intramuscularly or intranasally. Even with this route, opiate toxicity is reversed within 5 to 10 minutes. The half-life of naloxone is about 30 to 45 minutes, with a duration of action ranging from 90 to 180 minutes. These variations depend on the route of administration and dose. Patients should be monitored for any recurrence of opioid toxicity, as the initial drug effect may last longer than naloxone’s duration of action. An infusion may be started in patients requiring multiple bolus doses. The naloxone infusion dose is 3/4 of the amount required to reverse respiratory depression.[33] Much higher doses of naloxone are usually needed to reverse toxicity in patients who have taken large doses of propoxyphene, methadone, diphenoxylate/atropine, or fentanyl. Repeat doses of 2 mg may be required every 3 to 4 minutes for a total of 10 mg. The diagnosis of opioid toxicity should be reconsidered in patients who fail to respond to 10 mg of naloxone. Many street opiate preparations are adulterated, and the response to naloxone may not always be complete. A steady naloxone infusion is generally preferred over intermittent dosing for treating large overdoses. However, a naloxone infusion should not be administered if intubation is necessary.[34][35][36] Clinicians must be ready to intubate if