a nonmedical individual, such as a police officer. As of 2016, over 1,214 law enforcement agencies have trained their officers to administer naloxone in the field. This community involvement has led to increased survival rates following overdose incidents in the Midwest United States.[28] Emergency medical technicians must be aware of prearrival naloxone administration by law enforcement and its effects. In some cases, patients may experience a complete reversal of toxicity and refuse further medical care or transportation to an emergency department. Studies have shown low short-term mortality rates in these cases. However, the potential risks of recurrent toxicity must be explained to these individuals, as well as the associated morbidity and mortality.[29][30] If EMS are the first responders, priority should be given to assessing airway and hemodynamic stability. Naloxone should be administered in cases of decreased respirations. If the individual has no intravenous access, naloxone may be given intramuscularly, intranasally, intraosseously, or endotracheally via an endotracheal tube. Data show that the intranasal route is as effective as the intramuscular route in the prehospital setting. However, naloxone may cause agitation and aggression when it reverses the opioid effects. The lowest naloxone dose necessary to reverse respiratory apnea should be administered in individuals with opioid use disorder (OUD). Patients may become combative or violent in the ambulance, and restraints may be needed for the safety of both the patient and EMS personnel. If the patient remains unresponsive to naloxone, endotracheal intubation should be considered to protect the airway. **Emergency Department Care** Immediate assessment of the patient's airway and hemodynamics should be given priority upon evaluation in the emergency department. Additional information from EMS personnel should include the presence of any drugs or paraphernalia, the patient's initial presentation (including vital signs), any potential trauma, and details regarding the timing and specifics of the suspected overdose. EMS personnel at the scene may have already secured the airway by administering naloxone or performing endotracheal intubation in some cases. Emergency physicians should evaluate the patient's airway and breathing upon arrival and determine if further intervention is necessary. Immobilization should be prioritized if suspicion of occult trauma to the cervical spine arises. A capillary blood glucose level should be checked in any patient presenting with an unknown cause of lethargy or loss of consciousness, even if an overdose is highly suspected. Initial treatment of overdose starts with supportive care, including assistance with respiration, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) in