manifestations when activated.[15] μ-receptors mediate analgesia, euphoria, sedation, respiratory depression, gastrointestinal dysmotility, and physical dependence. These receptors reduce the medullary response to hypercarbia and decrease the respiratory response to hypoxia, leading to a diminished stimulus to breathe and the development of apnea. μ-receptors are concentrated in the brain, where they regulate analgesia; in the mesolimbic system, which is responsible for euphoria and reward; and in the medulla, which regulates respiration. κ-receptors mediate analgesia, diuresis, miosis, and dysphoria primarily within the spinal cord. Stimulation of this receptor subtype is not associated with constipation or significant changes in respiration. μ-receptor-specific antagonists do not reverse analgesia provided by κ-receptor stimulation.[16] δ-receptors mediate analgesia, inhibit dopamine release, and suppress cough. Less is known about the stimulation of this receptor, but it is believed to play a smaller role in behavior reinforcement. Opioids may be agonists, partial agonists, or agonist-antagonists of opioid receptors, which are located in the brain, spinal cord, and gastrointestinal tract. In overdose, excessive stimulation of the μ-opioid receptors in the brain that regulate respiratory rate leads to respiratory depression and, ultimately, death by respiratory arrest. The typical symptoms of overdose include pinpoint pupils, respiratory depression, and a decreased level of consciousness, which, together, form the “opioid overdose triad.” The roles of the σ- and δ-opioid receptors are less well understood. However, hallucinations, dysphoria, and psychosis may develop when σ-receptors are stimulated. Stimulation of δ-receptors can produce analgesia, euphoria, and seizures. σ-receptors are no longer considered opioids because they are not antagonized by naloxone. Tolerance occurs rapidly with opioids. In overdose, patients often succumb to respiratory failure. Tolerance to the loss of the hypercarbia drive takes longer to develop than tolerance to other euphoric effects, but opioid-tolerant patients do not develop complete tolerance to the loss of the hypoxic stimulus, leaving them susceptible to death from overdose.[17][18][19] ## Toxicokinetics Opiates may be administered intravenously, topically, inhalationally, intramuscularly, and orally. Peak opiate effects are reached within 5 to 10 minutes following intravenous administration but may take up to 90 minutes if the oral route is used. Drugs like heroin and butorphanol can reach peak levels within 10 to 15 minutes after nasal insufflation and about 30 to 45 minutes following intramuscular injection. Fentanyl, which is the only available topical analgesic agent, often takes 2 to 4 hours to reach peak levels. Most orally administered opiate is absorbed in the small intestine. Large opiate