to peak, and the elimination half-life is long, making it suitable for patients with chronic, continuous pain. Additionally, this route rarely precipitates toxicity because of the relatively prolonged, slow onset of action. However, the topical formulation of fentanyl can contribute to the toxicity of parenteral and oral opiates. Dextromethorphan was once widely available in many over-the-counter cough preparations. However, this product is no longer sold without regulation because of diversion. Although dextromethorphan was an over-the-counter preparation, high doses were known to cause sedation and even respiratory depression due to its chemical similarity to codeine. Additionally, using dextromethorphan in combination with monoamine oxidase inhibitors can lead to life-threatening serotonin syndrome, which may result in adverse cardiac events. Tramadol (Ultram) is classified as a nonopiate analgesic. However, this product has a dual mode of action, acting on both nonopiate and opiate receptors. Tramadol has a comparatively long duration of action, lasting 5 to 6 hours. Naloxone administration is recommended for patients known to have overdosed on tramadol, with most individuals requiring repeated doses or a continuous intravenous infusion. Many clandestine laboratories have emerged across the nation due to the difficulty of legally obtaining prescription opiates. These laboratories operate under unsterile conditions and use impure substances, resulting in more toxic drugs being sold on the street. Another challenge with illicit drugs produced in clandestine laboratories is that many cannot be detected using standard toxicological screens because of their structural dissimilarities. Several synthetic fentanyl derivatives, such as α-methylfentanyl, are circulating on the street and are extremely potent. Multiple deaths have been reported, with users found with needles still in their arms. Another synthetic derivative, 3-methylfentanyl, is thousands of times more potent than morphine. Extremely high doses of intravenous naloxone infusions are required for people overdosing on this agent. Deaths from these fentanyl derivatives often occur in clusters, as sellers move from street to street, causing multiple fatalities along the way. Pentazocine is classified as a partial agonist-antagonist and is used to treat moderate to severe pain. This drug works by stimulating the κ-opiate receptors and inhibiting the μ-opiate receptors. The drug shares many adverse effects common to other opiates. However, a unique feature of pentazocine is its potential to cause nightmares, hallucinations, and delusions. Pentazocine has a high ceiling effect, meaning that a high dose must be reached before further drug administration stops providing additional pain relief, although the risk of side effects still