abdominal pain rather than provide relief. Treatment for narcotic bowel syndrome involves psychotherapy, as well as tapering or discontinuing the opioid. Successful treatment depends on developing a strong patient-physician relationship and trust, gradually withdrawing the narcotic, and using nonpharmacological treatments to manage pain. **Withdrawal Reaction** Withdrawal symptoms following cessation of opiates are common, but they are often vague and less severe than those observed with alcohol or benzodiazepine discontinuation. The onset of symptoms depends on the drug ingested, typically occurring within 2 to 4 days after methadone cessation and 8 to 10 hours after meperidine withdrawal. Autonomic symptoms may include excessive lacrimation, sweating, piloerection, rhinorrhea, repeated yawning, myalgia, nasal congestion, diarrhea, and abdominal cramps. Symptoms usually peak between 36 and 48 hours and gradually subside within 72 hours. Symptoms may last 7 to 14 days in chronic drug addicts. Treatment for withdrawal symptoms is supportive, and the use of additional opiates to counter withdrawal symptoms is not recommended. Clonidine may be used in severe withdrawal cases, especially when methadone is inappropriate or unavailable. After acute treatment, the patient should be referred to a long-term drug rehabilitation program to help prevent relapse. ## Deterrence and Patient Education In early 2015, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services acknowledged the expanded use of naloxone among healthcare professionals to counter opiate overdoses nationwide. Now, pharmacists, EMS personnel, and physicians can all play an active role in preventing opiate overdoses. Current recommendations also suggest coprescribing naloxone to patients taking opiates. Several studies show that patients who receive naloxone alongside an opiate prescription have fewer opiate-related emergency room visits than those who do not. Today, some healthcare workers have started prescribing naloxone to patients on high doses of opiates. Recently, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the use of a handheld autoinjector that can be prescribed to caregivers or family members for managing suspected opiate overdoses. Additionally, numerous naloxone organizations have emerged across the country to fight the opiate overdose epidemic, including efforts to involve nonmedical professionals like law enforcement officers. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes With the drastic increase in opioid abuse and overdose-related deaths, much attention has focused on this so-called "opioid epidemic." All healthcare workers, including nurse practitioners who prescribe controlled substances, have a role in reducing the opioid epidemic and should be equipped to identify and treat those experiencing toxicity and overdose. New research focuses on finding effective interventions