patients may have been attempting to manage unrelenting pain. (CDC, 2016) Prescriptions for opioid-containing medications quadrupled between 1999 and 2010, paralleling a 4-fold increase in overdose deaths due to opioids. The majority of opioid-related deaths are attributed to the use of heroin and synthetic opioids other than methadone. The issue of poorly treated pain has led medical professionals to use various short- and long-acting opiates. While this approach has significantly improved pain relief, some patients often fail to adhere to proper dosing. When patients increase the dose or duration of opioid use, toxicity becomes a potential complication. Although the annual rates of transition are low, toxicity often occurs when individuals move from the nonmedical use of prescription opioids to heroin. Opioid overdose occurs when excessive unopposed stimulation of the opiate pathway leads to decreased respiratory effort and, potentially, death. The frequency of opioid overdoses is rapidly increasing. Drug overdose is now the leading cause of accidental death in the United States, with opioids being the most common culprit. According to the CDC, more than 1,000 emergency department visits reported daily are related to opioid misuse, and about 91 opioid overdose deaths are documented every day. Heroin, priced at about $2 per bag, is up to 10 times cheaper and more readily available than prescription opioid medications purchased on the street, which average around a dollar per milligram. Additionally, heroin is increasingly being mixed with fentanyl and other synthetic opioid compounds, resulting in variable opioid potency and a higher risk of overdose. Nonpharmaceutical or "street" opioids are often contaminated with other substances. To increase profits, sellers frequently add additional agents to the formula without informing the end user. These additives are pharmacologically active in many cases. Heroin was adulterated with scopolamine 2 decades ago in New York City, causing severe anticholinergic toxicity. Cocaine adulteration is also prevalent.[4][5][6][7] **Prescription Monitoring** Most states have established prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs) to counter the liberal prescribing of opiates by healthcare workers. In many states, healthcare professionals must consult the state’s online drug database to determine which analgesic drugs may be prescribed to patients. Such state-enacted legislation aims to prevent mass opiate prescriptions by healthcare workers and to help stop the diversion of legitimate opiate prescriptions. (DEA, 2016) Results are mixed, but research suggests that opioid databases have reduced opioid prescribing.[8] Additionally, with the assistance of the DEA, statewide registries of controlled substances now help