alone cannot rule out ovarian torsion. CT and MRI are not generally used to diagnose ovarian torsion but are commonly done to rule out other abdominal pathology such as acute appendicitis. The definitive diagnosis of ovarian torsion is made by direct visualization of a rotated ovary during surgery. For this reason, if clinical suspicion remains high with relatively normal labs and ultrasound imaging, the patient must have surgical evaluation. ## Treatment / Management The treatment of ovarian torsion is surgical detorsion, preferably by a gynecologist. In reproductive age females, salvage of the ovary should be attempted, and the surgeon must evaluate the ovary for viability. Most often, the approach to surgery should be laparoscopic and involves direct visualization of a twisted ovary. The evaluation of viability is mostly by visualization. A dark, enlarged ovary with hemorrhagic lesions may have compromised blood flow but is often salvageable.[10] After detorsion, ovaries were found to be functional in greater than 90% of patients who underwent detorsion. This was assessed by the appearance of the adnexa on ultrasound, including follicular development on the ovaries.[11] Therefore, surgery with adnexal sparing is the management of choice. Rarely, if the ovary appears necrotic and gelatinous beyond possible salvage, the surgeon may choose to perform a salpingo-oophorectomy. The surgeon may also perform cystectomy if a benign cyst is present. If the cyst appears to be malignant, or if the woman is post-menopausal, salpingo-oophorectomy is the preferred management. ## Differential Diagnosis There are many differentials for abdominal pain in a female. In a patient of childbearing age, ectopic pregnancy must first be ruled out with a beta hCG. If the beta hCG is negative, then this can essentially be ruled out. If positive, then an intrauterine pregnancy on ultrasound dramatically decreases the risk of ectopic but does not rule out heterotopic pregnancy. A ruptured ovarian cyst can also present like an ovarian torsion. Both may also have free fluid in the pelvis on ultrasound. However, cyst rupture typically causes sudden onset of sharp pain, which commonly occurs during sexual intercourse. A tubo-ovarian abscess may present with lower pelvic pain, which is usually more gradual in onset and associated with fever. Appendicitis can present with right-sided pelvic pain, nausea, vomiting, and fever. Lab values may show leukocytosis, and CT imaging should aid in differentiating it from ovarian pathology.[12] Other differentials include pyelonephritis, diverticulitis, and pelvic inflammatory disease. ## Prognosis Ovarian