which is usually more gradual in onset and associated with fever. Appendicitis can present with right-sided pelvic pain, nausea, vomiting, and fever. Lab values may show leukocytosis, and CT imaging should aid in differentiating it from ovarian pathology.[12] Other differentials include pyelonephritis, diverticulitis, and pelvic inflammatory disease. ## Prognosis Ovarian torsion is not usually life-threatening, but it is organ threatening. In premenopausal women, surgery with adnexal sparring is now the preferred treatment, and the majority of women had normal-appearing adnexa on ultrasound after surgery.[13] Ovarian salvage is increased in patients with less time from the onset of symptoms to surgical intervention. In postmenopausal women, salpingo-oophorectomy is done to prevent reoccurrence. This approach is also used in women with a mass suspicious for malignancy. The majority of ovarian masses are benign. Some case reports show less than 2% of torsions involving a malignant lesion. However, the chances of a malignant lesion involved in torsion are increased in the postmenopausal group.[1] ## Complications The main complication of ovarian torsion is the inability to salvage the ovary and the need for salpingo-oophorectomy. This may affect fertility in a woman of childbearing age. Other complications of torsion include abnormal pelvic anatomy that may contribute to infertility, such as adhesions, or atrophied ovaries.[14] There may be complications from the surgery itself, such as infection or venous thromboembolism. The risk of post-operative infection is increased when necrotic tissue is already present.[15] ## Consultations The most important and time-sensitive consultation will be to a gynecologist and should occur before confirmatory studies if clinical suspicion is high. The more time the ovary is without blood flow, the lower likelihood of salvaging function of the organ. ## Deterrence and Patient Education The most important thing for patients to keep in mind is seeking care immediately to allow for timely diagnosis and management. This is especially important if patients have a known risk factor for ovarian torsion such as a known cyst, are pregnant, or trying to become pregnant with fertility treatments. ## Pearls and Other Issues Ovarian torsion is a difficult diagnosis due to vague symptoms and nonspecific labs and imaging. It is important to keep this diagnosis in the differential and maintain clinical suspicion for torsion when another pathology has been ruled out. The dual blood supply to the ovary can also be deceiving, so the presence of blood supply on ultrasound does not rule out a torsion