refractory time. [1] Most cases of atrial fibrillation are non-genetic and relate to underlying cardiovascular disease. Typically, an initiating trigger excites an ectopic focus in the atria, most commonly around the area of the pulmonary veins, and allows for an unsynchronized firing of electrical impulses leading to fibrillation of the atria. These impulses are irregular, and pulse rates can vary tremendously. Overall, atrial fibrillation leads to a turbulent and abnormal flow of blood through the heart chamber, decreasing the heart's effectiveness in pumping blood while increasing the likelihood of thrombus formation within the atria, most commonly the left atrial appendage. Triggers for AF include: 1. Atrial ischemia 1. Inflammation 1. Alcohol and illicit drug use 1. Hemodynamic stress 1. Neurological and endocrine disorders 1. Advanced age 1. Genetic factors ## History and Physical History and physical exam are crucial for diagnosing and risk stratifying patients with atrial fibrillation. The presentation of AF can range from asymptomatic to devastating complications such as cardiogenic shock and ischemic stroke. A complete history should focus on symptoms such as palpitations, chest pain, shortness of breath, increased lower extremity swelling, dyspnea on exertion, and dizziness. In addition, history is imperative in identifying risk factors such as hypertension, history of valvular, structural, or ischemic heart disease, obstructive sleep apnea, obesity hypoventilation syndrome, smoking, alcohol intake, illicit drug use, history of rheumatic fever/heart disease, history of pericarditis, and hyperlipidemia. Initial evaluation of any patient presenting with features of AF should include the assessment for hemodynamic instability. Assessment of patients with existing AF includes questions regarding: 1. Duration and frequency of symptoms 1. History of triggers 1. Previously successful modes of termination 1. The use of anti-arrhythmic drugs 1. Antecedent cardiac diseases A physical exam should always begin with the assessment of airway breathing and circulation as it is going to affect the decision-making regarding management. On general physical examination, patients may be tachycardic with an irregularly irregular pulse. The heart rate usually ranges from 110/min to 140/min. Extremities should be evaluated for edema, peripheral pulses in both upper and lower extremities, and integumentary signs of peripheral vascular disease (PVD), such as hair loss and skin breakdown. The physical exam should focus on identifying the cause of AF. For instance, examining the neck of the patient may give some clues regarding carotid artery disease or thyroid problems. The pulmonary examination may reveal signs of heart failure in the