infections include postoperative abscesses and wound infections. Hematomas and postoperative pain are also common complications of appendectomy. [6] Recurrent appendicitis can occur in almost half of the patients managed nonoperatively; reported recurrence rates vary by study and length of follow-up. An interval appendectomy may be performed to mitigate the risk of recurrent appendicitis. Another form of recurrent appendicitis is stump appendicitis, resulting from an incomplete appendectomy and subsequent inflammation in the residual appendiceal stump. While stump appendicitis is most often seen following operative management of complicated appendicitis with perforation, it can occur whenever an excessively long appendiceal stump is left in situ. A stump size ≤5 mm minimizes the risk of stump appendicitis. Stump resection via an open or laparoscopic approach is the definitive therapeutic option; perforated appendiceal stumps often require extensive bowel resection.[54] Diffuse peritonitis and sepsis are severe consequences of untreated or complicated appendicitis. These conditions can cause significant morbidity and, in some cases, even death. ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care Patients with uncomplicated appendicitis generally experience an uneventful postoperative course, and antibiotic therapy is not required. However, patients with complicated appendicitis should be scheduled for a 4-day course of antibiotic therapy. Wound complications, including infections, should be managed by ensuring an adequate wound opening and irrigation, followed by packing. However, antibiotic therapy is essential in managing patients who have complications such as abscess formation and deep fascial plane involvement. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Patients may resume normal activity within a few days to a week. However, the patient should avoid any strenuous activity and heavy lifting for the first 4 to 6 weeks. ## Pearls and Other Issues Patients with perforated appendicitis with an abscess warrant special consideration. Those who present with an abscess and do not exhibit peritonitis may benefit from CT or ultrasound-guided percutaneous drain placement and antibiotic therapy. Interval appendectomy is classically performed 6 to 10 weeks after recovery. Historically, 20% to 40% of patients treated medically for perforated appendicitis with an abscess had recurrent appendicitis. However, more recent studies suggest these rates are much lower. Complications of appendicitis and appendectomy include surgical site infections, prolonged ileus, enterocutaneous fistula, and small bowel obstruction. In addition, intraabdominal abscess formation occurs in 3% to 4% of patients following an open appendectomy and 9% to 24% after a laparoscopic appendectomy. Occasionally, an incorrect diagnosis of acute appendicitis is made when the correct diagnosis is Crohn disease