edema and infiltration of neutrophils throughout the appendiceal wall.[17] The histopathological examination of gangrenous appendicitis reveals a friable appendix with purple, green, or black discoloration. In addition, the appendix shows transmural inflammation, with areas of necrosis and extensive mucosal ulceration. These findings indicate a severe inflammatory process that has compromised the blood supply to the appendix, leading to tissue death and decay. **Complicated Perforated Appendicitis** In cases of complicated perforated appendicitis, the histopathological evaluation may exhibit features indicative of abscess formation, characterized by marked transmural inflammation and neutrophils infiltrating the affected tissue. The inflammation frequently extends beyond the appendix to involve the surrounding mesoappendix. Complicated perforated appendicitis is a severe inflammatory process involving the appendix and the surrounding tissues, manifesting as evidence of perforation, abscess formation, and high-grade inflammation.[17] ## History and Physical The primary symptom of acute appendicitis typically begins as a diffuse or periumbilical abdominal pain that eventually becomes localized to the right lower quadrant. Stimulation of the visceral T8-T10 afferent nerve fibers causes this initial vague abdominal pain. As the inflamed parietal peritoneum in the adjacent area becomes irritated, the pain becomes more focused in the right lower quadrant. Patients may experience pain that awakens them from sleep or intensifies when walking or coughing. Alongside abdominal pain, individuals may also present with anorexia, nausea with or without vomiting, diarrhea, malaise, and urinary frequency or urgency.[18] Approximately 40% of patients with acute appendicitis are febrile at the time of presentation. Some patients may exhibit atypical or uncommon presenting features. Physical examination findings are often subtle, especially in early appendicitis. As inflammation progresses, signs of peritoneal irritation develop. Localized guarding of the right lower abdominal quadrant and rebound tenderness of McBurney point, approximately 1.5 to 2 inches from the anterior superior iliac spine (ASIS) on a straight imaginary line to the umbilicus, are frequently observed in cases of acute appendicitis. However, these clinical findings are not specific to appendicitis and can also be present in other conditions. There are other commonly encountered physical examination findings in cases of suspected appendicitis. However, it is essential to note that these findings are not diagnostic. Dunphy sign is the finding of increased abdominal pain with coughing or performing any activity that increases intra-abdominal pressure. Rovsing sign is pain in the right lower quadrant elicited by palpation or pressure of the left lower quadrant. A positive psoas sign is right lower quadrant pain