this is the first step in management because of the need for correction the hypovolemia/shock. Thiamine replacement is important in alcohol-related presentations, including intoxication, withdrawal, and ketoacidosis, and should be initially done parenterally and after that maintained orally. Electrolyte replacement is critical. Potassium losses that occur through gastrointestinal (GI) or renal losses should be monitored and replaced closely as glucose in the replacement fluid induces endogenous insulin, which in turn drives the extracellular potassium inside the cells. Also of paramount importance is monitoring and replacing the magnesium and phosphate levels, which are usually low in both chronic alcoholism and prolonged dietary deprivation as in starvation. The treatment of starvation ketoacidosis is similar to AKA. Patients need to be monitored for refeeding syndrome, which is associated with electrolyte abnormalities seen when aggressive feeding is started in an individual starved for a prolonged time. The resultant insulin secreted causes significant transcellular shifts, and hence similar to AKA, monitoring and replacing potassium, phosphate, and magnesium is very important. ## Differential Diagnosis Hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state (HHS) occurs in the setting of insulin resistance and is more typical of type 2 diabetes. There is sufficient insulin in patients with HHS to suppress lipolysis and production of ketone bodies, but inadequate amounts to prevent the hyperglycemia, dehydration, and hyperosmolality, characteristic of HHS. An illness or event that leads to dehydration will often precipitate the hyperglycemia associated with HHS. The development of HHS is less acute than DKA and may take days to weeks to develop. HHS typically presents with more extreme hyperglycemia and mental status changes compared with DKA. HHS typically presents with normal or small amounts of urine or serum ketones. Plasma glucose values in HHS are typically greater than in DKA and can exceed 1200 mg/dL (66.6 mmol/L). The serum osmolality is elevated greater than 320 mOsm/kg H2O. The serum bicarbonate level is greater than 18 mEq/L (18 mmol/L), and the pH remains greater than 7.3. Lactic acidosis is an alternative cause of an increased anion gap metabolic acidosis. Lactic acidosis is found with tissue hypoperfusion, hematological malignancies, and various medications. Rhabdomyolysis is a diagnostic consideration in a patient with a history of alcohol use disorder and an anion gap metabolic acidosis, but this condition is frequently associated with hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hypocalcemia, and a urinalysis positive for blood with no erythrocytes visible on urine microscopy. Acute abdominal surgical emergencies, such as acute pancreatitis, should