should receive broad-spectrum antibiotics, which may be continued for several weeks before elective appendectomy. While laparoscopic appendectomy can be performed in the presence of a periappendiceal abscess, extensive intraoperative irrigation of the abdominopelvic cavity is required, and the trocar sites may need to be left open to heal by secondary intention. **Alternative Surgical Techniques** While laparoscopic appendectomy has been widely used as the preferred approach for surgical management of acute appendicitis in many centers, open appendectomy might still be the practical choice in some clinical scenarios, such as complicated appendicitis with phlegmon. Several alternative surgical techniques, including Natural Orifice Transluminal Endoscopic Surgery (NOTES) and Single-incision Laparoscopic Surgery (SILS), have been introduced recently. NOTES accesses the peritoneal cavity through natural orifices such as the gastrointestinal or vaginal tract. This surgical approach allows for a scarless or nearly scarless procedure. The major potential advantages of NOTES appendectomy are the avoidance of visible scars and reduced postoperative pain. A detailed comparison of postoperative outcomes that includes NOTES appendectomy is not yet possible; patient numbers are limited. The most significant drawback of this surgical technique is the need to hybrid with the laparoscopic approach to provide adequate retraction during the procedure and confirm the closure of the entry site.[41][42][43][44][45] As a surgical technique, SILS for an appendectomy is performed with one incision in the umbilicus or a preexisting abdominal scar. Potential advantages of the SILS technique include decreased postoperative pain, wound-related postoperative complications, and recovery time.[46] However, up to 40% of patients require intraoperative conversion to a conventional laparoscopic procedure. The major disadvantage of SILS for an appendectomy is the higher risk of long-term complications, particularly incisional hernia. ## Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis of acute appendicitis includes but is not limited to Crohn ileitis, mesenteric adenitis, complicated cecal diverticulum, mittelschmerz, salpingitis, ruptured ovarian cyst, ectopic pregnancy, tubo-ovarian abscess, musculoskeletal disorders, endometriosis, pelvic inflammatory disease, gastroenteritis, right-sided colitis, renal colic, kidney stones, irritable bowel disease, testicular torsion, ovarian torsion, round ligament syndrome, and epididymitis. A comprehensive medical history and a problem-oriented physical examination are necessary to narrow the differential diagnosis. Recent viral infection is suggestive of acute mesenteric adenitis. Acute bacterial ileitis may be due to infections with _Yersinia_ or _Campylobacter_ species.[47] Severe cervical motion tenderness during the bimanual pelvic examination may indicate pelvic inflammatory disease. One of the most challenging differential diagnoses of acute appendicitis is the acute presentation of Crohn disease. While