the initial management of DKA. Volume expansion not only corrects the hemodynamic instability but also improves insulin sensitivity and reduces counter-regulatory hormone levels. After starting with isotonic saline, the subsequent options can be decided on the serum sodium levels that are corrected for the level of hyperglycemia. Normal or high serum sodium levels warrant replacement with hypotonic saline, and low sodium levels warrant continuation of the isotonic saline. This fluid has to be supplemented with dextrose once the level reaches around 200 to 250 mg/dl. Along with fluids, an intravenous infusion of regular insulin has to be initiated to maintain the blood glucose level between 150 to 200 mg/dl and until the high anion-gap acidosis is resolved in DKA. Like mentioned above, potassium levels are usually high because of the transcellular shifts due to the acidosis and the lack of insulin. When the potassium levels are low, this means that the total body potassium is low, and hence, insulin therapy should be postponed till at least the level of serum potassium is greater than 3.3 mEq/L. Otherwise, a further drop in levels would put the patient at risk for cardiac arrhythmias. In the 3.3 to 5 mEq/L; range, supplementation should be added in the maintenance fluids to target a steady 4.0 to 5.0 mEq/L range, and if higher than that, insulin and intravenous fluids alone can be started with just the frequent monitoring of the serum potassium level. The treatment of the acidosis itself is more controversial. Treatment with sodium bicarbonate therapy is controversial. It has been studied and found to provide no added benefit when the arterial blood pH is greater than 6.9 and may be associated with more harm.[7] A 2011 systematic review found that bicarbonate administration worsened ketonemia. Several studies have found higher potassium requirements in patients receiving bicarbonate. Studies in children have observed a possible association between bicarbonate therapy and cerebral edema.[8] AKA typically responds to treatment with intravenous saline and intravenous glucose, with rapid clearance of the associated ketones due to a reduction in counter-regulatory hormones and the induction of endogenous insulin. Like in DKA, this is the first step in management because of the need for correction the hypovolemia/shock. Thiamine replacement is important in alcohol-related presentations, including intoxication, withdrawal, and ketoacidosis, and should be initially done parenterally and after that maintained orally. Electrolyte replacement is critical. Potassium losses that occur through gastrointestinal (GI) or