diagnostic consideration in a patient with a history of alcohol use disorder and an anion gap metabolic acidosis, but this condition is frequently associated with hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hypocalcemia, and a urinalysis positive for blood with no erythrocytes visible on urine microscopy. Acute abdominal surgical emergencies, such as acute pancreatitis, should be considered differentials when abdominal pain is the main presentation. ## Pearls and Other Issues The American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists and the American College of Endocrinology have reviewed reported cases of DKA in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors.[9] This association is weak; however, if DKA develops in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors, stop the drug immediately, and proceed with traditional DKA treatment protocols. When DKA is found in patients using SGLT2 inhibitors, it is often “euglycemic” DKA, defined as glucose less than 250. Therefore, rather than relying on the presence of hyperglycemia, close attention to signs and symptoms of DKA is needed. In May 2015, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued a warning [B] that treatment with sodium-glucose transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors, which include canagliflozin, dapagliflozin, and empagliflozin, may increase the risk of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) in patients with diabetes mellitus. The FDA Adverse Event Reporting System database identified 20 cases of DKA in patients treated with SGLT2 inhibitors from March 2013 to June 2014. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Diabetes, once diagnosed, is mostly managed with changes in diet, lifestyle, and medication adherence. The goal is to prevent high glucose levels, which helps prevent diabetic complications. To prevent the complications of diabetes like ketoacidosis, the condition is best managed by an interprofessional team that includes the diabetic nurse educator, dietician, nurse practitioner, pharmacist, primary care provider, and an endocrinologist; all these clinicians should educate the patient on glucose control at every opportunity. Empowering the patient regarding management is hence of the utmost importance. Diabetes self-management education (DSME) and diabetes self-management support (DSMS) are recommended at the time of diagnosis of prediabetes or diabetes and throughout the lifetime of the patient. DSMS is an individualized plan that provides opportunities for educational and motivational support for diabetes self-management. DSME and DSMS jointly provide an opportunity for collaboration between the patient and health care providers to assess educational needs and abilities, develop personal treatment goals, learn self-management skills, and provide ongoing psychosocial and clinical support. The diabetic nurse should follow all outpatients to ensure medication compliance, followup with clinicians, and adopting a