site infections, prolonged ileus, enterocutaneous fistula, and small bowel obstruction. In addition, intraabdominal abscess formation occurs in 3% to 4% of patients following an open appendectomy and 9% to 24% after a laparoscopic appendectomy. Occasionally, an incorrect diagnosis of acute appendicitis is made when the correct diagnosis is Crohn disease of the cecum or terminal ileum. In such cases, if the base of the appendix is involved, it should be left in place. In this situation, removing the appendix carries a high risk of leak and fistula formation. Alternatively, if the base of the appendix is unaffected, appendectomy is recommended, even if the appendix appears grossly normal. This approach helps avoid future confusion when distinguishing between an exacerbation of Crohn disease and acute appendicitis. Historically, the appendix was removed during nonrelated abdominal surgery to avoid developing appendicitis later in life. In current clinical practice, a normal appendix is left in situ during unrelated scheduled procedures. However, if the preoperative diagnosis of acute appendicitis proves incorrect, intraoperative appendectomy is recommended to avoid future diagnostic confusion. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Patients with acute appendicitis usually present to the emergency department with abdominal pain as their primary symptom. The triage team must be well-versed in recognizing the signs and symptoms of appendicitis. Prompt identification is necessary to facilitate admission and treatment and decrease the risk of appendiceal perforation. However, accurately diagnosing acute appendicitis can be difficult. Several guidelines exist that can help practitioners make a diagnosis of acute appendicitis. While most physicians and advanced practice practitioners rely on the physical exam, others may choose to obtain an abdominal ultrasound in the diagnostic process. In cases where the diagnosis is uncertain, an abdominopelvic CT scan with IV contrast may be helpful; a CT without contrast is a reasonable option in cases of poor kidney function. The American College of Radiology recommends ultrasound as the imaging modality of choice for pregnant women with suspected appendicitis. In cases where the ultrasound results are inconclusive, MRI is suggested as the preferred imaging technique to aid in diagnosis within the same patient population.[55][56] While the patient is undergoing investigation, intravenous access should be contained and fluids administered; the patient should be kept NPO until a definitive diagnosis is made. Controversy exists regarding the optimal management of an appendiceal mass or phlegmon and the appropriate timing for surgery. There is no longer any question that laparoscopic appendectomy is