including glucagon. Low insulin levels are seen inherently in as either an absolute or relative deficiency in type I diabetes or a relative deficiency with insulin resistance in type 2 diabetes. In alcoholic or starvation conditions, low insulin levels are secondary to absolute or relative hypoglycemia. This unfavorable ratio of insulin to glucagon activates hormone-sensitive lipase, which breaks down triglycerides in peripheral fat stores, releasing long-chain fatty acids and glycerol. The fatty acids undergo beta-oxidation in the hepatic mitochondria and generate acetyl-CoA. With the generation of large quantities of acetyl-CoA in the more severe forms of each of these conditions, the oxidative capacity of the Krebs cycle gets saturated, and there is a spillover entry of acetyl-CoA into the ketogenic pathway and subsequent generation of ketone bodies. An increased anion gap metabolic acidosis occurs when these ketone bodies are present as they are unmeasured anions. Alcoholic ketoacidosis[5] occurs in patients with chronic alcohol abuse and liver disease and usually develops following abrupt withdrawal of alcohol or an episode of acute intoxication. It is not uncommon for the ingested ethanol to have already been metabolized, leading to low or normal serum levels when checked. In normal alcohol metabolism, the ingested ethanol is oxidized to acetaldehyde and then to acetic acid with the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase, during which process the coenzyme nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) is reduced to NADH. The acetic acid can be shunted towards ketogenesis in favorable insulin/glucagon concentrations, which is seen in hypoglycemia. In addition to this, the increased NADH further suppresses gluconeogenesis and reduces free glucose, perpetuating ketogenesis.[6] After abrupt withdrawal, rising catecholamine levels as a bodily response cause lipolysis and ketosis. The high ratio of NADH to NAD+ also favors the reduction of acetoacetate to beta-hydroxybutyrate. In extremes of starvation, after the exhaustion of the free glucose and after that, the body’s glycogen reserves, fatty acids become the primary fuel source. This usually happens after 2 or 3 days of fasting. After several days of fasting, protein catabolism starts, and muscles are broken down, releasing amino acids and lactate into the bloodstream, which can be converted into glucose by the liver. This biochemical process is responsible for the wasting and cachexia seen during starvation. ## History and Physical Patients with DKA may have a myriad of symptoms on presentation, usually within several hours of the inciting event. Symptoms of hyperglycemia are common, including polyuria, polydipsia, and sometimes