is elevated. The anion-gap is elevated, as mentioned above, because ketones are unmeasured anions. Leukocytosis may indicate an infectious pathology as the trigger and cultures are sent from blood, urine, or other samples as clinically indicated. Serum sodium is usually relatively low because of shifts of solvent (water) from the intracellular to extracellular spaces because of the osmotic pull of hyperglycemia. Hence, normal or elevated serum sodium is indicative of severe volume depletion. Serum potassium levels may be elevated due to shifts from the intracellular compartment for exchange with acids in the absence of insulin and normal or low potassium, indicating an overall depleted body store and subsequent need for correction before initiation of insulin therapy. In AKA, transaminitis, and hyperbilirubinemia due to concurrent alcoholic hepatitis may also be present. The alcohol level itself need not be elevated as the more severe ketoacidosis is seen once the level falls, and the counter-regulatory response begins and shunts the metabolism towards lipolysis. Hypokalemia and increased anion-gap are usually seen with similar mechanisms to those seen in DKA. Hypomagnesemia and hypophosphatemia are common problems seen in the laboratory evaluation due to decreased dietary intake and increased losses. As mentioned above, the direct measurement of serum beta-hydroxybutyrate is more sensitive and specific than the measurement of urine ketones. Starvation ketoacidoses patients may again have multiple electrolyte abnormalities due to chronic malnutrition, along with vitamin deficiencies. The pH may not be as low as in DKA or AKA, and the glucose levels may be relatively normal. ## Treatment / Management After the initial stabilization of circulation, airway, and breathing as a priority, specific treatment of DKA requires correction of hyperglycemia with intravenous insulin, frequent monitoring, and replacement of electrolytes, mainly potassium, correction of hypovolemia with intravenous fluids, and correction of acidosis. Given the potential severity and the need for frequent monitoring for intravenous insulin therapy and possible arrhythmias, patients may be admitted to the intensive care unit. Blood glucose levels and electrolytes should be monitored on an hourly basis during the initial phase of management. Aggressive volume resuscitation with isotonic saline infusion is recommended in the initial management of DKA. Volume expansion not only corrects the hemodynamic instability but also improves insulin sensitivity and reduces counter-regulatory hormone levels. After starting with isotonic saline, the subsequent options can be decided on the serum sodium levels that are corrected for the level of hyperglycemia. Normal or high