glucose by the liver. This biochemical process is responsible for the wasting and cachexia seen during starvation. ## History and Physical Patients with DKA may have a myriad of symptoms on presentation, usually within several hours of the inciting event. Symptoms of hyperglycemia are common, including polyuria, polydipsia, and sometimes more severe presentations include unintentional weight loss, vomiting, weakness, and mentation changes. Dehydration and metabolic abnormalities worsen with progressive uncontrolled osmolar stress, which can lead to lethargy, obtundation, and may even cause respiratory failure, coma, and death. Abdominal pain is also a common complaint in DKA. Patients with AKA usually present with abdominal pain and vomiting after abruptly stopping alcohol. On physical exam, most of the patients with ketoacidoses present with features of hypovolemia from gastrointestinal or renal fluid and electrolyte losses. In severe cases, patients may be hypotensive and in frank shock. They may have a rapid and deep respiratory effort as a compensatory mechanism, known as Kussmaul breathing. They may have a distinct fruity odor to their breath, mainly because of acetone production. There may be neurological deficits in DKA, but less often in AKA. AKA patients may have signs of withdrawal like hypertension and tachycardia. There are signs of muscle wasting in patients with starvation ketoacidosis like poor muscle mass, minimal body fat, obvious bony prominences, temporal wasting, tooth decay, sparse, thin, dry hair and low blood pressure, pulse, and temperature. ## Evaluation The initial laboratory evaluation of a patient with suspected DKA includes blood levels of glucose, ketones, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, electrolytes, calculated anion gap, arterial blood gases, osmolality, complete blood count with differential, blood cultures and urine studies including ketones, urinalysis, urine culture, chest radiograph, and an electrocardiogram. Hyperglycemia is the typical finding at presentation with DKA, but patients can present with a range of plasma glucose values. Although ketone levels are generally elevated in DKA, a negative measurement initially does not exclude the diagnosis because ketone laboratory measurements often use the nitroprusside reaction, which only estimates acetoacetate and acetone levels that may not be elevated initially as beta-hydroxybutyrate is the major ketone that is elevated. The anion-gap is elevated, as mentioned above, because ketones are unmeasured anions. Leukocytosis may indicate an infectious pathology as the trigger and cultures are sent from blood, urine, or other samples as clinically indicated. Serum sodium is usually relatively low because of shifts of solvent (water) from the