acute tinnitus, muffled hearing, or ear fullness should undergo a comprehensive head and neck examination, including a detailed otologic evaluation, ideally with otomicroscopy. Audiometric testing is the primary diagnostic tool and should be performed if hearing loss persists beyond 72 hours. Cortical evoked response audiometry may be indicated for patients suspected of exaggerating their hearing loss.[14] Further noise exposure should be avoided, especially if vertigo accompanies the hearing loss, to prevent risks during activities like driving or operating heavy machinery. Absolute indications for otolaryngology referral include suspected temporal bone fracture, tympanic membrane perforation, persistent clear or discolored ear drainage that does not resolve within a few days, facial nerve paralysis, and hearing loss in a patient with a single functional ear. The most significant challenges in AAT include the following: - Accurate diagnosis - Delays in seeking medical care (underreporting) - Repeat acoustic trauma - Blast-type noise - Concomitant prolonged noise exposure Management of AAT should be personalized and initiated promptly. Treatment outcomes and prognosis vary, and patients should be informed that hearing recovery remains unpredictable, regardless of intervention. ## Etiology Noise from loud explosions can damage the inner ear by overstimulating the auditory nerve fibers that relay sound information to the brain. The sound blasts may be associated with high pressures or blast overpressure, which can harm the outer ear, ear canal, tympanic membrane, and middle ear ossicles. These explosions may also generate strong blast winds or pressure gradients. Additionally, penetrating ballistic injuries can occur alongside the sound blast, causing blunt trauma. Lastly, explosions can expose individuals to toxic substances from gases, fuels, or metals, potentially resulting in burns to otologic structures. AAT can occur in occupational settings, such as the military, or environmental contexts, such as exposure to gunfire or work-related blasts.[15] Depending on the intensity and characteristics of AAT, hearing loss may be permanent despite treatment. Genetic factors contribute to individual susceptibility to NIHL and AAT, including the _Ahl_ gene, CDH23 (which encodes cadherin 23), myosin 14, and other related genes.[16][17][18][19][20][21][22] ## Epidemiology A 2019 study by the OSHA Information System revealed that from 1972 to 2019, there were 119,305 violations of OSHA noise standards related to occupational noise exposure in general industry.[23] More males than females are reported to have NIHL, with no significant age differences noted. Many individuals with occupational hearing loss also experience depression and sleep disorders.[24] Recreational firearm use in the United States