ototoxicity. Patients should follow dry ear precautions. A thorough neurological examination must include an assessment of the cranial nerves, especially the facial nerve. If the AAT is part of a more extensive trauma, a comprehensive full-body trauma examination is essential. ## Evaluation Currently, no specific professional guidelines exist for managing AAT. However, clinicians can reference the American Academy of Otolaryngology–Head and Neck Surgery (AAOHNS) guidelines for sudden hearing loss, the American College of Occupational and Environmental Medicine guidance on occupational noise-induced hearing loss, and the Joint Trauma System (JTS) Clinical Practice Guidelines on Aural Blast Injury/Acoustic Trauma and Hearing Loss.[45][46][25] The diagnosis of AAT requires a comprehensive evaluation, considering other potential causes of acute sudden hearing loss. Following a detailed history and physical examination, a battery of audiological tests is typically the next step. According to the JTS Practice Guidelines, all patients with subjective hearing loss after AAT should undergo the following tests. - Screening audiometry: This should be conducted as soon as possible after the initial trauma unless more urgent treatment or altered mental status prohibits evaluation. - Audiological evaluation: This test should follow the presentation of signs of concussion.[25] - Comprehensive audiogram: This includes tympanometry, bone-conducted thresholds, speech discrimination, and acoustic reflexes if hearing loss lasts for more than 72 hours. Patients with a temporary threshold shift greater than 25 dB should be considered for steroid treatment, either orally or via transtympanic injection. Follow-up audiometry is essential to monitor progress. **Pure-Tone Audiometry** Pure-tone audiometry assesses the function of the outer ear, middle ear, cochlea, cranial nerve VIII (CNVIII), and central auditory system. Studies examining audiometric configurations in military patients with AAT consistently show high-frequency hearing loss, typically presenting with a notch between 2 and 6 kHz and recovery at 8 kHz. Conversely, some authors reported normal hearing thresholds within the conversational range, with deterioration at higher frequencies.[47][48] They concluded that limiting hearing tests to the standard frequency range of 0.5 to 8 kHz may result in missed cases of AAT. A high-frequency hearing test covering up to 16 kHz is recommended to ensure accurate assessment.[47] Audiometry results in AAT can resemble those of presbycusis. However, presbycusis typically presents with greater hearing loss at 8 kHz than at 3, 4, or 6 kHz. In contrast, AAT often shows more significant loss at 6 kHz than 8 kHz, with similar thresholds at 4 and 8 kHz, and peak loss sometimes