infections (primarily) - Autoimmune diseases - Chemotherapy for cancer or infections - Neurological disorders, such as multiple sclerosis - Ménière disease ## Prognosis The time interval from AAT to triage, initial audiometry, and treatment by an otolaryngologist is crucial for improving prognosis, especially if steroid therapy is initiated. In a study involving 263 healthy participants, half received steroids, whereas the other half did not receive any treatment following AAT. Those treated within 24 hours with high-dose steroids for at least 7 days demonstrated significantly better hearing outcomes compared to the untreated group. The steroid-treated group experienced an average improvement of 13 to 14 dB in bone conduction thresholds at 3 and 4 kHz (_P_ = .001) and an additional 7 to 8 dB improvement in air conduction thresholds at 6 and 8 kHz compared to the untreated group (_P_ < .0001).[61] Patients exhibiting a threshold shift greater than 60 dB across three consecutive frequencies for 10 or more days after noise exposure are unlikely to resolve spontaneously and are at a higher risk of permanent hearing loss.[25] ## Complications The effects of loud noise exposure are pathological, psychological, and sociological. Hearing loss can impact interpersonal communication, leading to diminished self-esteem and strained relationships. This may also reduce attention and cognitive function, increasing the risk of dementia. While noise can affect work performance, the extent of this impact often depends on individual predisposition. Additionally, the financial burden of hearing loss and compensation costs for employers can be significant. ## Deterrence and Patient Education The World Health Organization (WHO) reports that hearing loss is among the 20 leading causes of disease burden and the most common disability globally. NIHL is the most preventable cause of hearing loss. However, AAT may be less predictable and preventable in occupational or military settings. A critical component of prevention efforts is education at all levels. Individuals at risk, such as military personnel, must understand that hearing can only be protected through efforts to reduce exposure to hazardous noise. The importance of wearing HPDs and referring individuals to specialists after AAT—regardless of the level of hearing loss—should be emphasized in hearing conservation programs. ## Pearls and Other Issues AAT presents various challenges and considerations in prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. Critical facts to keep in mind regarding AAT include: - AAT can be prevented with the use of hearing protection. - Hearing loss resulting from blast injuries may