mainstay treatment for a perforated peptic ulcer is early operative intervention as mortality significantly increases with surgical delay.[14] Surgery will typically consist of a peritoneal lavage of 5-10 liters of saline followed by an interrupted sutured closure of the perforated ulcer followed by an omental patch (Roseo-Graham patch). A drain is placed in the dependent areas and the abdomen is closed. The surgical drain is removed on postoperative days 3-5. This procedure can be done by an open approach or laparoscopically as there have been no significant differences in terms of mortality or clinically significant outcomes when comparing the two methods. A select number of patients may be chosen to forego surgery in favor of medical treatment alone. This option is a decision that would be made by the surgical consultant and would be limited to patients less than 70 years old with early presentation (less than 24 hours), mild/localized symptoms, and in stable condition. In such patients, perforated peptic ulcer is managed by iv fluids, antibiotics, Ryle's tube aspiration, constant monitoring of urine output, and electrolytes. This is referred to as the Hermen-Taylor regimen.[7][13] After 12 weeks follow-up gastroscopy must be done. ## Differential Diagnosis Differential diagnosis includes but is not limited to the following: - Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) - Acute coronary syndrome - Aortic dissection - Appendicitis - Boerhaave syndrome - Cholecystitis - Cholelithiasis - Choledocholithiasis - Diverticulitis - Duodenitis - Esophagitis - Foreign body ingestion - Gastritis - Hepatitis - Hernia - Mesenteric ischemia - Neoplasm - Nephrolithiasis - Pyelonephritis - Small bowel obstruction - Ureterolithiasis - Volvulus ## Surgical Oncology Gastric ulcers are premalignant and hence biopsy of the ulcer or perforation margins are indicated in such patients. If found positive for neoplasia, thorough staging using endoscopy and imaging is used to stage and grade the disease, followed by resection or a combination of chemotherapy and surgery is recommended. ## Prognosis The mortality rate of perforated peptic ulcer is ten times higher than that seen with acute appendicitis or cholecystitis. Though bleeding is a more common complication than perforation (6:1), the mortality rate is 5-fold higher with a perforated peptic ulcer compared with a bleeding peptic ulcer.[7] The estimated 30-day mortality rate with perforation is 24%.[6] Patients with comorbidities or those older than 65 have a worse prognosis. Similarly, patients who have a delayed presentation or have a shock on initial presentation also have increased