may identify other symptoms that may have been present before ulcer perforation. The most common symptom in patients with peptic ulcer disease is dyspepsia or upper abdominal pain. This pain may be vague upper abdominal discomfort or it may be localized to either the right upper quadrant, left upper quadrant, or epigastrium. Gastric ulcers may be worsened by food whereas pain from a duodenal ulcer may be delayed 2-5 hours after eating. Patients who are experiencing bleeding from a peptic ulcer may complain of nausea, hematemesis, or melanotic stools. Some patients may report bright red blood per rectum or maroon-colored stool if the upper gi bleeding is brisk. Patients with peptic ulcer perforation typically will complain of sudden and severe epigastric pain. Pain while initially localized, quickly becomes more generalized in location. Patients may present with symptoms of lightheadedness or syncope secondary to hypotension from blood loss or SIRS (systemic inflammatory response syndrome)/sepsis. After several hours, abdominal pain may temporarily improve though it is still reproducible by movement. If there is a delay in seeking medical attention and the perforation is not walled off, patients are likely to experience increasing abdominal distension along with clinical manifestations of SIRS/sepsis.[5][11] A thorough physical examination should be done on all patients complaining of abdominal pain. Those with a perforated peptic ulcer are likely to have diffuse abdominal tenderness that progresses to guarding and rigidity. Rectal examination may demonstrate positive guaiac stools. Patients are likely to be tachycardic and may be hypotensive. They may be febrile and have mental status changes if there has been a delay in presentation.[5] ## Evaluation The evaluation of a patient in whom perforated peptic ulcer is suspected should be done quickly as the morbidity and mortality increase significantly with time. Even if a perforated peptic ulcer is suspected due to history and physical examination, diagnostic studies should be obtained to confirm the diagnosis and to rule out other possible etiologies. Typical workup includes labs and imaging studies. Standard labs should include complete blood count (CBC), chemistry panel, liver function tests, coagulation profile, and lipase levels (to rule out pancreatitis). Blood type and screening should be done as well. A set of blood cultures and lactic acid should be done on patients meeting the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) criteria. Lactic acid will help elucidate coexistent ischemia. A urinalysis can be done in patients with similar pain or those