pancreatitis). Blood type and screening should be done as well. A set of blood cultures and lactic acid should be done on patients meeting the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) criteria. Lactic acid will help elucidate coexistent ischemia. A urinalysis can be done in patients with similar pain or those with urinary symptoms. Imaging studies should be obtained once the patient is stabilized. While plain abdominal films or chest x-ray may demonstrate free air, a computed tomogram (CT) scan of the abdomen and pelvis will have the highest yield diagnostically. Intravenous (IV) or oral contrast is not required to illustrate pneumoperitoneum, but IV contrast may be used in patients with undifferentiated abdominal pain/peritonitis. ## Treatment / Management Perforated peptic ulcers are life-threatening conditions with a mortality rate that approaches 30%. Early surgery and aggressive management of sepsis are the mainstays of therapy.[7] An initial emergent surgery consultation is required in all patients with peritonitis even before definitive diagnosis. Patients should be resuscitated with crystalloids, antibiotics, and analgesics. Administration of early intravenous antibiotics should be considered, especially for patients presenting with SIRS criteria. Once the diagnosis of peptic ulcer perforation is made, a nasogastric tube should be placed, and IV proton pump inhibitor should be administered, IV antibiotics should be given, and a surgical evaluation must be done. Then the decision can be made regarding whether the patient will require surgery. Sepsis accounts for approximately half of all mortalities in the setting of perforated peptic ulcers.[7] Given the high prevalence of sepsis and its associated mortality, antibiotics should be administered to all patients with a perforated peptic ulcer. Antibiotics should be broad-spectrum and cover gram-negative rods and anaerobes. A combination of a third-generation cephalosporin and metronidazole is a reasonable choice as is monotherapy with a combination beta-lactam/beta-lactamase inhibitor (i.e., ampicillin-sulbactam, piperacillin-tazobactam).[12] Intravenous proton pump inhibitors (PPI) help bleeding cessation and facilitate healing, but efficacy in perforated ulcers has not been established. That said, intravenous PPI administration should be given to creating a neutral pH environment that aids in maintaining platelet aggregation and hence should promote rapid sealing of perforated ulcers.[1][13] The mainstay treatment for a perforated peptic ulcer is early operative intervention as mortality significantly increases with surgical delay.[14] Surgery will typically consist of a peritoneal lavage of 5-10 liters of saline followed by an interrupted sutured closure of the perforated ulcer followed by an omental patch (Roseo-Graham patch). A drain