common endpoint in acute tubular necrosis is a cellular insult secondary to ischemia or direct toxins, which results in effacement of the brush border, cell death, and decreased function of tubular cells. One intrarenal cause is intratubular obstruction—such as by pigments such as myoglobin, crystals such as uric acid in tumor lysis syndrome, or immunoglobulin light chains, as seen in monoclonal gammopathy—which can also lead to the same result. Other intrarenal mechanisms of injury are glomerulonephritis or acute interstitial nephritis, which can be due to immune-mediated injury of the vasculature, inflammatory responses, and immune complex deposition leading to glomerular and tubular damage. Postrenal pathophysiology is usually related to urinary reflux, causing decreased renal perfusion, tubular atrophy, and interstitial inflammation. ## Histopathology Histopathology can reliably differentiate the intrinsic renal pattern of AKI from others; however, histopathology may not be reliable at narrowing down a specific cause in every situation. Renal biopsy is an invasive procedure and is usually only pursued in cases where a significant impact on management is expected, such as suspected glomerulonephritis or if multiple etiologies are possible. Immunofluorescence patterns, electron microscopy, and staining for fibrosis and inflammatory cells can help differentiate various causes in such cases. ## History and Physical The history and physical exam should focus on determining the etiology of AKI and the progression timeline. If the history points towards hypovolemia or hypotension, then the treatment is guided towards volume repletion. Providers should look for inciting events such as diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, which may have caused volume loss, or any over-the-counter drugs such as NSAIDs. Differentiating between AKI and chronic kidney disease (CKD) is essential, as CKD itself is not an uncommon risk factor for AKI. A history suggestive of CKD can include symptoms such as chronic fatigue, anorexia, nocturia, disturbed sleep-wake cycle, polyuria, and pruritis. Moreover, a careful review of past medical history may reveal comorbid conditions that can help narrow down the etiology of AKI, such as cirrhosis or a history of blood clots requiring anticoagulation. History and physical examination are essential in AKI because labs often cannot provide a clear answer as to the etiology of AKI. The most common causes of AKI in hospitalized patients are as follows: 1. ATN, 45% 1. Prerenal disease, 21% 1. AKI superimposed on CKD, 13% 1. Urinary tract obstruction, 10% 1. Glomerulonephritis or vasculitis, 4% 1. AIN, 2% 1. Atheroemboli, 1% A history of urine output