pathophysiology of AKI has traditionally been divided into three categories: prerenal, intrinsic renal (ie, intrarenal), and postrenal. Each of these categories has many different associated causes, and some causative factors of AKI have overlapping mechanisms of injury.[6][7] The prerenal form of AKI is due to any cause of reduced blood flow to the kidney. This may be part of systemic hypoperfusion resulting from hypovolemia or due to selective hypoperfusion of the kidneys, such as resulting from renal artery stenosis or aortic dissection. However, tubular and glomerular function tends to be initially normal. A few examples of prerenal AKI mechanisms are listed below: 1. Hypovolemia: hemorrhage, severe burns, and gastrointestinal fluid losses such as diarrhea, vomiting, and high ostomy output. 1. Hypotension from decreased cardiac output: cardiogenic shock, massive pulmonary embolism, acute coronary syndrome. 1. Hypotension from systemic vasodilation: septic shock, anaphylaxis, anesthesia administration. 1. Renal vasoconstriction: NSAIDs, iodinated contrast, amphotericin B, calcineurin inhibitors, hepatorenal syndrome. 1. Glomerular efferent arteriolar vasodilation (causing intraglomerular hypotension): ACE inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers. Intrinsic renal causes include conditions that affect the glomerulus or tubule, such as acute tubular necrosis and acute interstitial nephritis. This underlying glomerular or tubular injury is associated with the release of vasoconstrictors from the renal efferent pathways. Prolonged renal ischemia, sepsis, and nephrotoxins are the most common causes. It is worth mentioning that prerenal injury can convert into a renal injury if the offending factor's exposure is prolonged enough to cause cellular damage. A few examples of this mechanism are listed below: 1. Acute tubular necrosis (ATN): ischemia from prolonged prerenal injury; drugs such as aminoglycosides, vancomycin, amphotericin B, and pentamidine; iodinated contrast; rhabdomyolysis; intravascular hemolysis 1. Acute interstitial nephritis (AIN): Drugs such as beta-lactam antibiotics, penicillins, NSAIDs, proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), and 5-ASA; infection; autoimmune conditions (systemic lupus erythematosus [SLE], IgG-related disease); and hereditary AIN. 1. Glomerulonephritis: anti-glomerular basement membrane disease, immune complex-mediated diseases (such as SLE, post-infectious glomerulonephritis, cryoglobulinemia, IgA nephropathy, IgA vasculitis). 1. Intratubular obstruction: monoclonal gammopathy (such as in multiple myeloma), tumor lysis syndrome, hemolytic anemia, and toxins such as ethylene glycol. Postrenal etiology for AKI includes obstructive causes, which lead to congestion and urinary backflow of the filtration system, leading to a shift in the filtration driving forces. A noteworthy fact is that a unilateral obstruction may not always present as AKI, especially if the obstruction is gradual, because a normal working contralateral kidney may compensate