in clinical practice such as diuretics and are not always diagnostic. No single marker can be reliably used in isolation to distinguish among the causes of AKI, and clinical presentation must be considered. ## Treatment / Management Many cases overlap between prerenal and ATN types of AKI.[16][17] The best way to determine if the AKI is prerenal or not is a fluid challenge. If there is no contraindication, all patients with acute renal dysfunction should receive a fluid challenge. This requires close monitoring of urine output and renal function. If the renal function improves with fluid, this indicates prerenal AKI. Acute tubular necrosis and other intrarenal causes are often slow to recover and can take weeks to months for complete recovery of renal function. Diuretics may be required during the oliguric phase of ATN if significant volume overload develops. It is also important to avoid further kidney insults, such as nephrotoxic drugs. In addition, many medications must be renally adjusted once a patient develops AKI. Dietary ingestion of potassium and phosphorus should also be monitored. If hyperkalemia develops, it needs to be managed expeditiously. Approaches to lower potassium in the body include: 1. Dietary restriction 1. Insulin, IV dextrose, and beta-agonists 1. Potassium-binding resins 1. Calcium gluconate to stabilize the cardiac membrane if EKG changes are present 1. Dialysis for nonresponsive hyperkalemia Some AKI patients tend to develop volume overload, which should be corrected as early as possible to avoid pulmonary and cardiac complications. Euvolemic state can be achieved with the help of diuretics, which is a cornerstone in managing such patients. Usually, high doses of IV furosemide are needed to correct volume overload in AKI patients; however, it plays no role in converting oliguric AKI to non-oliguric AKI. In some cases, short-term renal replacement therapy is needed for AKI until the kidney function recovers. Some indications for RRT are severe and nonresponsive hyperkalemia, uremic pericarditis, and pulmonary edema. This is seen especially in the oliguric phase of acute tubular necrosis, where the patient is prone to develop multiple electrolyte and acid-base abnormalities as well as fluid overload.[18] Dialysis in this setting is usually performed through a temporary venous catheter when required. Continuous renal replacement therapy can also be utilized in patients who cannot tolerate hemodialysis due to hypotension. It is a much slower, continuous type of dialysis. Correction of some of the metabolic abnormalities, along with dialysis, may be