pressure Doppler ECHO is used to evaluate hemodynamics of the disease and may reveal the following: - Abnormal passive filling of the ventricles in early diastole - Increase in diastolic flow velocity across the tricuspid valve during inspiration and decrease during expiration - Exaggerated reduction in flow velocity in the pulmonary veins and across the mitral valve in inspiration and a leftward shift of ventricular septum **Electrocardiogram** There are no specific signs of constrictive pericarditis on ECG which may reveal nonspecific ST changes and low voltage. Advanced and long-standing cases may show atrial fibrillation secondary to elevated atrial pressures. Computed tomography scan and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are also frequently done especially before surgical management of constrictive pericarditis. These can reveal thickened pericardium and presence of calcifications. Computed tomography scans can detect calcifications better compared to cardiac MRI. Cardiac MRI is better to differentiate small effusions from pericardial thickening. Myocardial fibrosis or atrophy seen on computed tomography or MRI is associated with a poor surgical outcome. Occasionally patients undergo right heart catheterization for hemodynamic studies which may reveal increased right atrial pressure, increased right ventricle end-diastolic pressure, prominent x and y descent on venous and atrial pressure tracings and greater inspiratory fall in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure compared to the left ventricular diastolic pressure. ## Treatment / Management Pericardiectomy is the only definitive management of chronic constrictive pericarditis and effort should be made to remove as much of the pericardium as possible. Extensive penetration of the myocardium by fibrosis and calcification is associated with poor outcomes. Operative mortality ranges from 55% to 10%. It should be considered very cautiously in patients with mild disease with few symptoms or patients with advanced disease and other comorbidities due to the high mortality of the procedure. Diuretics can be used to reduce edema or elevated venous pressures before the surgery or for palliative control of symptoms in patients who are not surgical candidates.[1][12][13] A subset of patients may have a spontaneous resolution or may respond to medical management, and they are said to have transient constrictive pericarditis. Patients with newly diagnosed constrictive pericarditis who are hemodynamically stable and do not have stigmas of chronic constriction may be treated with anti-inflammatory agents for up to 3 months with close monitoring. If these patients develop signs of chronic constriction and hemodynamic instability they should undergo prompt surgical treatment. ## Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis