obstructive causes, which lead to congestion and urinary backflow of the filtration system, leading to a shift in the filtration driving forces. A noteworthy fact is that a unilateral obstruction may not always present as AKI, especially if the obstruction is gradual, because a normal working contralateral kidney may compensate for the function of the affected kidney. Pathological disturbances can occur within 2 hours of obstruction, starting with decreased filtration at the level of the glomerulus due to increased upper urinary tract pressure. This results in decreased renal perfusion, inflammation, tubular atrophy, and interstitial fibrosis. Eventually, bladder atony, periglomerular fibrosis, chronic interstitial nephritis, and secondary FSGS can develop. Weeks or months of obstruction can lead to ESRD. Once obstruction is released, post-obstructive diuresis occurs in up to 50% of patients and should be monitored for severe complications of hypovolemia and electrolyte abnormalities. The most common etiology of postrenal AKI is bladder outlet obstruction, which is often due to prostatic hypertrophy in older men, pelvic masses in older women, and nephrolithiasis in younger patients.[8] 1. Renal/ureteral calculi can present in the renal calyces, renal pelvis, bladder, or urethra. Size and location are the determining factors of AKI, and this is a significant etiology in those with a solitary kidney. Struvite and cystine stones grow especially rapidly and commonly cause obstruction. 1. Tumors, blood clots, and neurogenic bladder cause mechanical ureteral outlet obstruction. Blood clots can be a result of bladder or urinary tract malignancy. 1. Urethral obstruction is the most common cause of prostate enlargement in older men. The obstruction can also be caused by retroperitoneal fibrosis, pregnancy, fecal impaction, pelvic organ prolapse, pelvic masses/malignancy, or phimosis. ## Epidemiology AKI is commonly seen in hospitalized patients. In the United States, 1% of all hospital admissions have AKI on admission. During hospitalization, the approximate incidence rate of acute kidney injury is 2% to 5%, and it occurs in up to 67% of patients admitted to the intensive care unit. AKI is thus an important contributor to more extended hospital stays and patient morbidity.[9][10][11] ## Pathophysiology The pathogenesis of AKI is etiology-driven. The common endpoint in acute tubular necrosis is a cellular insult secondary to ischemia or direct toxins, which results in effacement of the brush border, cell death, and decreased function of tubular cells. One intrarenal cause is intratubular obstruction—such as by pigments such as myoglobin, crystals such as uric acid in