the etiology of AKI. The most common causes of AKI in hospitalized patients are as follows: 1. ATN, 45% 1. Prerenal disease, 21% 1. AKI superimposed on CKD, 13% 1. Urinary tract obstruction, 10% 1. Glomerulonephritis or vasculitis, 4% 1. AIN, 2% 1. Atheroemboli, 1% A history of urine output may give clues as to the cause of AKI. The following are some associations: 1. Oliguria favors AKI. 1. Sudden anuria suggests acute urinary tract obstruction, acute glomerulonephritis, or vascular blockage. 1. Polyuria suggests either a concentrating tubular defect, such as acute interstitial nephritis, or postobstructive nephropathy. A detailed physical exam can provide extremely valuable information in establishing the etiology of AKI. A crucial part of the physical exam should be orthostatic vital signs, which may signify hypovolemia. Several organ systems can provide clues regarding the cause of AKI. Some of them are: 1. Skin: livedo reticularis, digital ischemia, butterfly rash, and purpuras to suggest vasculitis. A maculopapular rash may indicate drug-induced AIN. Needle marks may suggest IV drug use, which can cause endocarditis. Livedo reticularis and skin infarcts are also seen with cholesterol emboli disease. Decreased skin turgor suggests hypovolemia. 1. Eyes and ears: jaundice is present in liver disease, band keratopathy is present in multiple myeloma, diabetes mellitus can show microscopic retinopathy, and blood vessel narrowing is associated with hypertension. Keratitis, iritis, and uveitis may be present in autoimmune vasculitis. Hearing loss is associated with Alport disease. 1. Cardiovascular system: pulse rate, blood pressure, and jugulovenous pulse can indicate volume status. Irregular rhythm may indicate electrolyte imbalance-related arrhythmias. Pericardial friction rub may be heard in uremic pericarditis, and a heart murmur is often heard in the case of endocarditis. Embolic disease can present as cyanotic extremities. ## Evaluation Evaluation of AKI should include a thorough search for all possible etiologies of AKI, including prerenal, intrarenal, and postrenal disease. Noting the time of onset of AKI can be useful when dealing with hospitalized patients. For example, if a sudden creatinine rise is noted, an inciting factor usually occurs in the 24 to 48 hours preceding this onset. It is imperative to look for any radiologic studies involving the use of iodinated contrast agents, a common cause of AKI. It is also important to review the medications the patient is receiving and determine if the doses need to be modified. ACE inhibitors and ARBs are often the co-contributors to AKI.