while the pulmonary wedge pressure decreases.[8][9][10] ## History and Physical Patients often present with chronic symptoms. Their symptoms may be related to volume overload like weight gain and swelling or may be related to decreased cardiac output like progressive fatigue and dyspnea on exertion. They may also complain of increasing abdominal girth or abdominal discomfort. Abdominal complaints are secondary to either ascites or congestive hepatomegaly. On physical examination, the jugular venous pressure (JVP) is usually elevated, however, may be normal in early constrictive pericarditis. JVP does not decrease with inspiration, and this is known as Kussmaul's sign. Kussmaul's sign is also present in tricuspid valve disease, and right-sided heart failure.Pulsus paradoxus (more than 10 mm Hg drop in systolic blood pressure during inspiration) can be seen however this is more common in patients with cardiac tamponade. An accentuated heart sound heard earlier than third heart sound called pericardial knock can be heard in almost half of the patients. Abdominal examination may reveal ascites or hepatomegaly. Other signs of chronic illness like muscle wasting may be present based upon the etiology. Peripheral edema may be present as well. ## Evaluation **ECHO Cardiography** The American College of Cardiology and the European Society of Cardiology guidelines recommend the use of echocardiography for diagnosis of constrictive pericarditis and any other pericardial disease. Two-dimensional echocardiography may show increased pericardial thickness without or without calcification. Two-dimensional echocardiography may also reveal dilatation of the inferior vena cava with the absence of inspiratory collapse. A sharp halt in diastolic filling may be seen along with the abrupt transient movement of intraventricular septum towards the right side which is also known as septal bounce.[2][3][11] The M mode is very important to rule out constrictive pericarditis. The following features are frequently seen in constrictive pericarditis and An absence these features on M mode makes the diagnosis of constrictive pericarditis very unlikely. - Posterior motion of ventricular septum on early diastole in inspiration - Absence of increase in systemic venous return with inspiration - Premature opening of the pulmonic valve due to higher right ventricular diastolic pressure compared to pulmonary arterial pressure Doppler ECHO is used to evaluate hemodynamics of the disease and may reveal the following: - Abnormal passive filling of the ventricles in early diastole - Increase in diastolic flow velocity across the tricuspid valve during inspiration and decrease during expiration - Exaggerated reduction in flow velocity in the