syndrome or unstable angina or who experienced a myocardial infarction less than 1 week ago 1. Caution is advised in patients with reactive airway disease with wheezing Reversal of vasodilator effects: In patients who suffer from undesirable effects from pharmacologic stress testing agents, caffeine is given generally to counteract the effects. The use of caffeine in reversing the side effects is more beneficial in dipyridamole and regadenoson due to longer duration of action as compared to adenosine. Aminophylline can be used for more threatening side effects. **Dobutamine** Dobutamine is an inotropic agent that can be used for myocardial perfusion stress testing.[1] Dobutamine is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration for pharmacologic stress testing and rarely used currently. Dobutamine is a beta-agonist that results in the stimulation of beta1 and beta2 receptors.[14] Dobutamine, like exercise, increases myocardial oxygen demand and evokes ischemia if there is insufficient perfusion to the affected myocardium that can be seen on stress echocardiography or nuclear imaging. Beta-blockers should be held 24 hours before the dobutamine stress test due to the opposite antagonistic action. Dobutamine dose: Dobutamine is given as an infusion as an incremental dose beginning at 5 or 10 mcg/kg/min for 3 minutes. It is increased to 20, 30, and then 40 mcg/kg/min, also for 3-min intervals, for a maximum of 12 minutes or until the target heart rate is achieved. Radiotracer is injected at peak heart rate with dobutamine infusion continuing for one minute following tracer injection. The half-life of dobutamine is 2 to 3 min. Indications: 1. Dobutamine is a secondary pharmacologic stress agent that is recommended only in patients who cannot undergo an exercise stress test and also have contraindications to pharmacologic vasodilator stress agents such as high degree AV block or reactive airway disease (if regadenoson is not available). Contraindications: 1. Patients with acute coronary syndrome or unstable angina or who experienced a myocardial infarction less than 1 week ago 1. Hemodynamically significant left ventricular outflow obstruction. 1. Atrial tachyarrhythmias with an uncontrolled ventricular response 1. Hypertension (systolic blood pressure over 200 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure exceeding 110 mmHg) 1. Aortic dissection 1. Known hypersensitivity to dobutamine ## Normal and Critical Findings Pharmacological stress testing with myocardial perfusion imaging can help to detect perfusion or wall motion abnormalities that indicate either infarction (seen on stress and rest images) or ischemia (seen on stress images only). The utility of