Patients with bronchospastic lung disease with ongoing wheezing or history of significant reactive airway disease should not undergo dipyridamole stress testing. 1. Uncontrolled hypertension (systolic pressure of over 200 mmHg or a diastolic pressure of over 110 mmHg) 1. A systolic blood pressure of less than 90 mmHg. 1. Known hypersensitivity to dipyridamole. 1. Caffeine intake in the previous 12 hours 1. Second- or third-degree atrioventricular block without a functioning pacemaker. **Regadenoson** Regadenoson is another direct coronary artery vasodilator, which is a selective A2A agonist. The affinity with which regadenoson binds with A2A is 10 times greater than its affinity to bind with the A1 receptor and even weaker affinity to bind with A2B and A3 receptors. Regadenoson produces maximal hyperemia quickly and maintains it for an optimal duration that is more practical for radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging. Regadenoson's simple, rapid bolus administration in all patients, regardless of weight and short duration of hyperemic effect, has greatly simplified the method of stress testing as compared to adenosine and dipyridamole. It is the most commonly used currently due to lesser side effects and easier to perform.[11] Regadenoson dose: As mentioned earlier, the dosing of regadenoson is not weight-based like other vasodilators. The dose of regadenoson normally used is 0.4 mg, which is available only in a prefilled 5-ml syringe. The dose is immediately followed by a saline flush. The radiotracer is administered 10 to 20 seconds later, immediately followed by another saline flush.[12] The results of the ADVANCE MPI 2 trial have shown that regadenoson is non-inferior to adenosine for the detection of reversible defects and is safe and better tolerated.[13] The half-life of regadenoson is 2 hours. Contraindications: 1. Regadenoson is considered contraindicated for patients with second- or third-degree AV block or sick sinus syndrome. 1. Allergic response in the past to the agent 1. Hypotension with systolic blood pressure \<90 mmHg. 1. Poorly controlled blood pressure with systolic blood pressure significantly higher (greater than 200 mmHg at rest) 1. Patients who received dipyridamole in the last 2 days should also avoid regadenoson stress testing. 1. Patients with acute coronary syndrome or unstable angina or who experienced a myocardial infarction less than 1 week ago 1. Caution is advised in patients with reactive airway disease with wheezing Reversal of vasodilator effects: In patients who suffer from undesirable effects from pharmacologic stress testing agents, caffeine is given generally to counteract the