and can reduce the coronary vasodilation effects of adenosine. Therefore, it is recommended to discontinue consumption of caffeine-containing medications, foods, or beverages for at least 12 hours and ideally 24 hours before adenosine stress testing.[8] Contraindications: 1. Adenosine is contraindicated in patients with reactive airway disease with significant wheezing 1. Patients with a history of advanced conduction abnormalities, including 2nd or 3rd-degree atrioventricular block in the absence of a permanent pacemaker. 1. Patients with a history of abnormalities in the sinus node in the absence of a permanent pacemaker 1. Systolic blood pressure of less than 90 mmHg 1. Poorly controlled blood pressure with systolic blood pressure significantly higher (over 200 mmHg at rest). 1. Caffeine intake in the previous 12 hours 1. Known hypersensitivity to adenosine 1. Patients with acute coronary syndrome or unstable angina or who experienced a myocardial infarction less than 1 week ago. **Dipyridamole** Dipyridamole was the first vasodilator used for myocardial perfusion stress testing. It is an indirect coronary artery vasodilator. It increases the tissue levels of adenosine by preventing the intracellular reuptake of adenosine by inhibiting enzyme adenosine deaminase prolonging its vasodilator effect and increasing adenosine blood levels.[9][10] Dipyridamole increases coronary blood flow to 3.8 to 7 times than baseline. The alpha half-life (the initial decline following peak concentration) is approximately 30 to 45 minutes. The beta-half life (the terminal decline in plasma concentration) is approximately 10 hours. It is metabolized in the liver to glucuronic acid conjugate and excreted in the bile. Dipyridamole dose: The dose of dipyridamole is 0.142 mcg/kg/min, or 0.57 mcg/kg.[9] Dipyridamole is infused over 4 min, with the radiotracer being injected 3 to 5 min after the completion of the dipyridamole infusion. Symptoms may last for a longer time than other vasodilators (15 to 25 minutes). Side effects of dipyridamole: 1. The incidence of atrioventricular (AV) block with dipyridamole is less than that observed with adenosine (2%). 1. Chest pain is seen in 20% but is nonspecific and not necessarily indicative of the presence of CAD. 1. Minor side effects include headache, dizziness, nausea, hypotension, and flushing. Contraindications: 1. Patients with bronchospastic lung disease with ongoing wheezing or history of significant reactive airway disease should not undergo dipyridamole stress testing. 1. Uncontrolled hypertension (systolic pressure of over 200 mmHg or a diastolic pressure of over 110 mmHg) 1. A systolic blood pressure of less than 90 mmHg. 1. Known