can result in disease, which is beyond the scope of this review.[5] ## Development The thyroid gland is embryonically the earliest endocrine structure to appear in human development and appears at embryonic day 22 in humans. The thyroid gland originates from the endoderm. Specifically, it derives from a median endodermal down-growth from the tongue. After embryogenesis, the physiology of the thyroid is controlled by the requirement for thyroid hormones and the supply of iodide. Hypothalamic supraoptic nuclei and thyrotrophs of the anterior pituitary monitor thyroid hormone plasma levels and action. The expression of transcription factors NK2 homeobox and paired box (PAX 8) are crucial for the proper expression of proteins creating the thyroid gland.[4] ## Organ Systems Involved The thyroid gland affects almost every organ system of the body. It affects the cardiovascular system by regulating the cardiac output, stroke volume, heart rate, and contractility. The defects in the thyroid mechanism can affect the nervous system, presenting as numbness, tingling, pain, or burning in the affected parts of the body. Hypothyroidism can also cause depression in patients. It is also involved with gastrointestinal motility. Thyroid gland disorders affect the reproduction system, with women suffering from irregularities in their menstrual cycles and problems when trying to conceive.[6] ## Function TSH from the anterior pituitary modulates the release of T3/T4 from thyroid follicular cells. T4 is deiodinated to T3, which is a more potent thyroid hormone. While about 20% of T3 originates from the thyroid gland, 80% of T3 is produced by peripheral conversion via a deiodinase, especially type 2. More than 99% of thyroid hormone is protein-bound to thyroid-binding globulin, pre-albumin, and albumin. T3 then binds to its receptor in the nucleus; this activates the transcription of DNA, which promotes the translation of mRNA and the synthesis of new proteins involved in the gland's functioning.[7] The thyroid influences many organ systems, such as promoting bone growth and maturation and the central nervous system's maturation. The basal metabolic rate is increased, with an increase in the synthesis of sodium (Na+)-potassium (K+)-ATPase, oxygen consumption, and heat production. Metabolism becomes activated with increased glucose absorption, glycogenolysis, gluconeogenesis, lipolysis, protein synthesis, and degradation (net catabolic). The hormones influence the cardiovascular system by increasing cardiac output, stroke volume, heart rate, and heart contractility by increasing the number of beta-1 receptors on the myocardium such that the myocardium is more sensitive to stimulation by the sympathetic nervous