absorption, glycogenolysis, gluconeogenesis, lipolysis, protein synthesis, and degradation (net catabolic). The hormones influence the cardiovascular system by increasing cardiac output, stroke volume, heart rate, and heart contractility by increasing the number of beta-1 receptors on the myocardium such that the myocardium is more sensitive to stimulation by the sympathetic nervous system, thereby increasing contractility.[8] ## Mechanism TSH binds and activates the thyroid gland. The TSH binds to the membrane receptor on the epithelial cell surface, activating the adenylate cyclase located in the plasma membrane, which increases the cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) levels. This leads to the stimulation of additional intracellular signaling events, resulting in the formation of thyroid hormones.[9] Iodide from the plasma is concentrated and absorbed by thyroid cells through the sodium/iodide symporter (NIS) on the basolateral membrane of thyrocytes (follicular cells). This process depends on sodium and active transport, meaning it couples inward translocation down its electrochemical gradient with inward translocation of iodide against its electrochemical gradient. The iodide has to be delivered to the thyroglobulin-enriched colloid at the apical surface; this appears to be a function of another protein, pendrin, which is a chloride/iodide exchanger that promotes iodide efflux in the colloid-rich lumen. Within the thyroid follicle, thyroid peroxidase oxidizes, organifies, and couples iodine to tyrosine residues on thyroglobulin. Defects in any of these steps can result in dyshormonogenetic goiter and congenital hypothyroidism. Thyroglobulin is a glycoprotein with a molecular mass of 660 kDa enriched in tyrosine residues and secreted and stored in the colloid. Initially, thyroid peroxidase forms iodine by oxidation of the iodide ion. When TSH stimulates the thyroid follicle, thyroid peroxidase organifies or covalently bonds the tyrosine of the thyroglobulin molecule to colloid to iodine. If 1 iodine covalently bonds to tyrosine on the thyroglobulin, this forms monoiodotyrosine (MIT). If 2 iodine covalently bonds thyroglobulin, this forms diiodotyrosine (DIT). Thyroid peroxidase then couples an MIT with a DIT to form triiodothyronine (T3) or couples a molecule of DIT with another DIT to form thyroxine (T4). After the coupling, thyroglobulin is taken up by the thyrocyte for lysosomal degradation, releasing T4 and T3. DIT and MIT that are uncoupled are deiodinated by a dehalogenase to recycle and conserve any iodide. The thyroid gland secretes thyroxine (T4), which can convert to T3 in the periphery or reverse T3 (rT3). Triiodothyronine (T3) is active, whereas rT3 is inactive.[10] The hypothalamic-pituitary axis regulates TSH release. The hypothalamus secretes