thyroid hormone synthesis), thyroidectomy, radioiodine therapy, which destroys the thyroid, and beta-adrenergic blocking agents (adjunct therapy).[17] The Jod-Basedow Effect occurs when excessive iodine loads induce hyperthyroidism. It is an observation in hyperthyroidism caused by Graves disease, toxic multinodular goiter, and toxic adenoma. The large iodine doses from dietary changes, contrast administration, and iodine-containing medication such as amiodarone can cause symptomatic thyrotoxicosis in these patients.[18] Hypothyroidism has symptoms that include decreased basal metabolic rate, weight gain and nitrogen balance, reduced heat production, cold sensitivity, decreased cardiac output, hypoventilation, lethargy and mental slowness, drooping eyelids, myxedema, growth retardation, mental retardation in perinatal patients, and goiter. When a patient exhibits these symptoms, an increased TSH would indicate negative feedback if the primary defect is in the thyroid gland. At the same time, a decreased TSH would indicate a defect in the hypothalamus or anterior pituitary. Hypothyroidism can result from thyroiditis (autoimmune or Hashimoto thyroiditis), surgery for hyperthyroidism, iodine deficiency, congenital (cretinism), or decreased TRH or TSH. Treatment for this should include thyroid hormone replacement.[19] The Wolff-Chaikoff effect occurs in patients with autoimmune thyroiditis when increasing doses of iodine increase thyroid hormone synthesis. The thyroid hormone synthesis ceases when iodine concentration increases further due to negative feedback. In patients with functional thyroid tissue, the thyroid can counter this decrease in iodine through the release and leakage of iodine. However, in patients with decreased functional thyroid tissue due to autoimmune thyroiditis, the thyroid cannot adapt and compensate for the decrease in thyroid hormone synthesis as iodine increases further does not occur, causing the patient to become hypothyroid.[18] ## Clinical Significance Dyshormonogenesis can result in goitrous congenital hypothyroidism. All of the disorders are generally autosomal recessive. A defect in iodide uptake due to a mutation in the sodium/iodide symporter (NIS) gene can result in hypothyroidism, goiter, and mental impairment. Classically, tracer uptake is reduced, and thyroglobulin increases with low T4 and high TSH in the diagnostic workup.[20] Thyroid peroxidase mutations can result in congenital hypothyroidism with goiter, given the crucial role of this enzyme in TH biosynthesis.[21] TPO antibodies are present in Hashimoto thyroiditis, which is an autoimmune disorder leading to hypothyroidism. Pendred syndrome results from mutations in the Pendrin gene, resulting in sensorineural deafness, goiter, and thyroid dysfunction in the second decade of life. Mutations in the thyroglobulin gene can result in congenital hypothyroidism with low levels of thyroglobulin. DUOX2 is crucial for the generation