MIT that are uncoupled are deiodinated by a dehalogenase to recycle and conserve any iodide. The thyroid gland secretes thyroxine (T4), which can convert to T3 in the periphery or reverse T3 (rT3). Triiodothyronine (T3) is active, whereas rT3 is inactive.[10] The hypothalamic-pituitary axis regulates TSH release. The hypothalamus secretes the thyroid-releasing hormone (TRH), which stimulates thyrotrophs in the anterior pituitary to secrete TSH. The anterior pituitary releases TSH and stimulates the thyroid follicular cells to release thyroxine, T4 (80%), triiodothyronine, or T3 (20%). When T4 is released into circulation, it can convert to T3 through deiodination. T4 and T3 can then exert negative feedback on TSH levels, with high levels of T3/T4 decreasing TSH and low levels of T3/T4 increasing TSH levels from the anterior pituitary. T3 is the predominant inhibitor of TSH secretion. Because TSH secretion is so sensitive to minor changes in serum-free T4 through this negative feedback loop, abnormal TSH levels are detected earlier than free T4 in hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism. There is a log-linear relationship between T3/T4 and TSH, with minor changes in TH resulting in major changes in TSH.[11] ## Related Testing Thyroid function monitoring is predominantly via TSH analysis, as it is the best first-line test in evaluating hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism since the test is more reliable than plasma T3/T4, which fluctuates.[12] Testing for TSH is a first-line screening test for both hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism.[13] If values are outside the reference range of 0.4 to 4.5 milliunits/ml, measure T4 if TSH is elevated or measure T4 and T3 if TSH is decreased.[14] In hypothyroidism, if the cause is primary (originating in the thyroid gland), high TSH would be detected, which is the best first-line test.[15] This finding would be accompanied by low total T4, low free T4, hypercholesterolemia (decreased LDL receptor synthesis), plus elevated creatinine kinase levels and thyroid antibodies in Hashimoto disease.[16] ## Pathophysiology Graves' disease can cause hyperthyroidism in that there is an increased thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulin, thyroid neoplasm (for example, toxic adenoma), excess TSH secretion, or exogenous T3 or T4. Treatment for this should include propylthiouracil (which inhibits peroxidase enzyme and thyroid hormone synthesis), thyroidectomy, radioiodine therapy, which destroys the thyroid, and beta-adrenergic blocking agents (adjunct therapy).[17] The Jod-Basedow Effect occurs when excessive iodine loads induce hyperthyroidism. It is an observation in hyperthyroidism caused by Graves disease, toxic multinodular goiter, and toxic adenoma. The large iodine doses from dietary changes, contrast