monitoring. Intravenous access and blood work for type and cross-match are part of the plan of care. The maternal-fetal dyad continues to be monitored until there is a change in condition or fetal maturity. Delivery is necessary if the collected data results in class 2 (moderate) or class 3 (severe) classification and the fetus is viable and alive. Because of the hypertonic contractions, a vaginal birth may occur rapidly. Given the potential for coagulopathy, vaginal birth presents less risk to the mother. However, if there are signs of fetal distress, an emergency cesarean birth is necessary to protect the fetus. Careful management of fluids and circulatory volume is important during the surgical procedure. Postoperatively, the patient needs to be monitored for postpartum hemorrhage and alterations in the clotting profile. A neonatal team must be in the delivery room to receive and manage the infant. ## Differential Diagnosis Bleeding during the second half of pregnancy is usually due to either placental abruption or placenta previa. Differentiating these 2 conditions is important to the patient's care. The information below compares the presentation of placental abruption and placenta previa on common parameters included in an obstetrical examination. - The onset of symptoms is sudden and intense for placental abruption but quiet and insidious for placenta previa - Bleeding may be visible or concealed with placental abruption and is external and visible with placenta previa - The degree of anemia or shock is greater than the visible blood loss in placental abruption and is equal to that in placenta previa. - Pain is intense and acute in placental abruption and is unrelated to placenta previa. - The uterine tone is firm and board-like in placental abruption and soft and relaxed in placenta previa. ## Prognosis The prognosis depends on when the patient presents to the hospital. If the bleeding continues, both maternal and fetal lives are at stake. Partial placenta separation is associated with low mortality compared to full separation; however, in both cases, without an emergent cesarean section, fetal demise may occur. The condition accounts for 5% to 8% of maternal deaths today. ## Complications The complications that can manifest with placental abruption are as follows: - Severe hemorrhage - Fetal demise - Maternal death - Delivering premature infant - Coagulopathy - Transfusion-associated complications - Hysterectomy - Cesarean section means future deliveries are all via cesarean section - Recurrence has been reported in