data.[8][9][10] An ultrasound examination is useful in determining the placental location and eliminating the diagnosis of placenta previa. However, ultrasound's sensitivity in visualizing placental abruption is low. During the acute phase of placental abruption, the hemorrhage is isoechoic or similar to the surrounding placental tissue. Therefore, visualization and differentiation of the concealed hemorrhage associated with placental abruption from the surrounding placental tissue are difficult. A biophysical profile may be used to manage conservatively treated patients with marginal placental abruption. A score of 6 or below indicates compromised fetal status. Blood work, including a CBC, clotting studies (fibrinogen and PT/a-PTT), and BUN, provides baseline parameters to evaluate patient status changes. If a blood transfusion is necessary, a type and Rh have been obtained. A Kleihauer-Betke test may be ordered to detect fetal blood cells in maternal circulation. This test does not diagnose the presence of placental abruption but quantifies the presence of fetal blood in the maternal circulation. This knowledge is important in Rh-negative women because the mixing of fetal blood in the maternal circulation may lead to isoimmunization. Therefore, if a significant fetal-maternal bleed is present, the Kleihauer-Betke test results help to determine the needed dose of Rh (D) immune globulin to prevent isoimmunization. ## Treatment / Management The onset of placental abruption is often unexpected, sudden, and intense and requires immediate treatment. Prehospital care for a patient with a suspected placental abruption requires advanced life support and transport to a hospital with a full-service obstetrical unit and a neonatal intensive care unit. Upon arrival at the hospital, most women receive intravenous (IV) fluids, supplemental oxygen, and continuous maternal and fetal monitoring while the history and physical are completed. Subsequent treatment varies based on the data collected during the assessment, the gestation of the pregnancy, and the degree of distress experienced by the woman or the fetus.[11][12] Women classified with a class 1 or mild placental abruption, no signs of maternal or fetal distress, and pregnancy less than 37 weeks gestation may be managed conservatively. These patients are usually admitted to the obstetrical unit for close maternal and fetus status monitoring. Intravenous access and blood work for type and cross-match are part of the plan of care. The maternal-fetal dyad continues to be monitored until there is a change in condition or fetal maturity. Delivery is necessary if the collected data results in class 2 (moderate) or class 3 (severe)