rate appears to differ geographically. Notably, heart failure, malignant pleural effusion, and parapneumonic effusions account for the majority in terms of annual incidence. ## Pathophysiology The amount of fluid in the pleural space is typically around 0.1 to 0.3 mL/kg, significantly influencing the hydromechanical coupling between the lung and chest wall. Pleural fluid is derived from the blood vessels of the parietal pleural surfaces, filtered out by the hydrostatic pressure of systemic vessels. This fluid is subsequently reabsorbed through the lymphatic vessels, primarily located in the dependent portions of the pleural cavity. Accumulation of excess fluid can occur from various mechanisms. Simplistically, excessive production or decreased absorption can overwhelm the normal homeostatic mechanisms within the pleural space. The pathophysiology of pleural effusion includes several mechanisms, including increased pulmonary capillary pressure, as observed in heart failure and renal failure, and increased pulmonary capillary permeability, commonly associated with pneumonia. Pleural effusion can also result from decreased intrapleural pressure, such as in atelectasis, and decreased plasma oncotic pressure, as observed in hypoalbuminemia. In addition, pleural effusion can arise due to increased pleural permeability from infections or inflammation, obstruction of pleural lymphatic drainage by malignancies, and fluid migration from other sites or cavities such as the peritoneum or retroperitoneum. Furthermore, rupture of thoracic vessels, leading to haemothorax or chylothorax, and drug-induced effects can also contribute to the development of pleural effusion.[11][12] ## History and Physical Pleural effusion symptoms can vary from no discernible signs to exertional breathlessness, depending on the restriction of thoracic movement. The pathophysiology associated with pleural effusion is not fully understood in the scientific literature. The amount of effusion seems to correlate poorly with the severity of symptoms. The impact of effusion on thoracic expansion appears to exert the most salient influence. Additional plausible etiologies include oxygen impairments and coexisting intraparenchymal diseases, such as pulmonary edema in the setting of heart failure.[13] The patient may present with symptoms such as cough, fever, and systemic signs, depending on the underlying cause of the effusion. Although rare, effusions can occasionally attain a size significant enough to induce hemodynamic changes, imitating tamponade physiology. Patients with active pleural inflammation called pleurisy complain of sharp, severe, localized crescendo-decrescendo pain with breathing or coughing. Pleuritic pain tends to subside when an effusion develops. Constant pain is also a hallmark of malignant diseases such as mesothelioma. The physical examination findings can range from subtle to florid. Intercostal space