However, short-term use of calcitonin has also been demonstrated to significantly reduce osteoporotic bone pain compared to a placebo, especially in the acute setting.[5][6] Therefore, calcitonin may be a preferred treatment for acute osteoporotic fractures. In such circumstances, physicians are advised to administer calcitonin until the pain diminishes. This is followed by transitioning to a more potent and enduring therapeutic option, such as bisphosphonate, for long-term management. The recommended dosages of calcitonin for postmenopausal osteoporosis comprise 200 units of the medication administered through intranasal spray once daily or 100 units administered via intramuscular (IM) or subcutaneous (SQ) injection once daily. The patient should complement calcitonin intake with calcium and vitamin D supplementation. Monitoring BMD measurements is necessary every 1 to 2 years after initiating the calcitonin therapy. Furthermore, additional parameters such as height, weight, serum calcium, and serum calcifediol levels should be evaluated in the patient annually. Biochemical markers of bone turnover can also help assess the response to treatment.[7] Furthermore, the patient should be questioned about chronic back pain during each visit. **Paget disease of bone** Calcitonin is an FDA-approved medication and secondary treatment option for Paget disease of bone, prescribed when issues of bisphosphonate tolerance arise. Clinically, calcitonin can provide relief in bone pain, reverse neurological deficits, reduce blood flow to the diseased bone, and may even improve hearing loss associated with Paget disease.[8] Calcitonin therapy reaches its peak effect on osteoclasts within 24 to 48 hours, in contrast to bisphosphonate therapy, which takes 3 months to achieve maximal suppression of bone resorption.[9] This characteristic of calcitonin makes the drug a preferred choice in situations where prompt surgery on the Pagetic bone is imperative. In a study involving 24 patients with untreated Paget disease of bone, calcitonin administration reduced skeletal blood flow to the affected Paget bone. This effect could lead to decreased disease activity and lessened bleeding during surgical interventions. The markers of bone remodeling and turnover, namely serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and urine hydroxyproline, were also reduced.[10] A separate study involving 85 patients similarly exhibited 50% reductions in ALP and urine hydroxyproline levels over 3 to 6 months. However, among these individuals, 22 reverted to baseline values despite continuous treatment. Interestingly, out of these 22 patients, 19 developed elevated titers of anti-calcitonin antibodies.[11] This phenomenon reduces the long-term effectiveness of calcitonin in a substantial number of patients. In contrast, bisphosphonates are not susceptible to antibody formation