6 months. However, among these individuals, 22 reverted to baseline values despite continuous treatment. Interestingly, out of these 22 patients, 19 developed elevated titers of anti-calcitonin antibodies.[11] This phenomenon reduces the long-term effectiveness of calcitonin in a substantial number of patients. In contrast, bisphosphonates are not susceptible to antibody formation and have demonstrated greater anti-resorptive effects. Due to the extended half-life within the Paget bone, bisphosphonates effectively suppress disease activity for years, even after treatment cessation.[12] Although bisphosphonates are a better option for long-term management, calcitonin may be better suited for providing acute relief from Paget-associated bone pain.[13][8] As Paget's disease of bone is a chronic condition, calcitonin therapy can be sustained indefinitely. Patients are initially administered 50 to 100 units of calcitonin daily through IM or SQ administration, followed by a maintenance dose of either 50 units daily or 50 to 100 units every 1 to 3 days. Serum ALP should be measured at 3 to 6 months to assess patients' response to calcitonin therapy. When serum ALP levels have returned to normal, they can be evaluated every 6 months to a year. If ALP levels start to increase again, the possibility of calcitonin antibody formation should be considered; therefore, an antibody titer test may be warranted. Calcium and vitamin D supplementation are also recommended for patients, followed by periodic monitoring of their serum levels. If the patient continues to experience bone pain despite calcitonin therapy, obtaining a computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan can provide more precise insight into the lesion and aid in deciding whether surgical intervention should be considered. **Hypercalcemia** Calcitonin is an FDA-approved medication for the treatment of hypercalcemic emergencies. The complications associated with hypercalcemia include confusion, coma, dehydration, polyuria, kidney stones, nausea, constipation, pancreatitis, hypertension, and cardiac arrhythmias. Calcitonin addresses these concerns by decreasing the resorption of hydroxyapatite from bone and enhancing the renal excretion of calcium. Owing to the drug's swift onset of action, calcitonin is a viable treatment option when a prompt reduction in calcium levels is required. The initial reduction in calcium levels is achieved through rehydration using a saline solution, followed by the simultaneous administration of bisphosphonate and calcitonin. Calcitonin is administered through IM or SQ injection at a dosage of 4 units per kg, repeated every 12 hours.[14] Calcitonin's effects become noticeable within approximately 2 hours, and it can reduce serum calcium levels by up to