pulmonary hypertension (HAPH). Acute mountain sickness develops secondary to rapid ascent and can be described as a "hangover, " including nonspecific symptoms such as headache, nausea, dizziness, fatigue, and insomnia.[2] High altitude pulmonary edema is a progression of acute mountain sickness and presents with acute pulmonary, a complication of the body's poor acclimatization. High altitude cerebral edema, the most feared complication of altitude sickness, involves cerebral edema and associated neurological symptoms and sequela. Chronic hypoxic stimuli of high altitude living can result in permanent pulmonary vascular remodeling due to increased pulmonary vascular resistance and define a subgroup of pulmonary hypertension known as HAPH.[1] This topic focuses primarily on the pathophysiology, clinical presentation, and management of HAPH. ## Etiology At altitudes above 2500 meters, the barometric pressure is lower, which decreases the partial pressure of oxygen in the air. Even though the FiO2 remains at 21% at high altitudes, the amount of oxygen reaching the alveoli is much less than at sea level, resulting in hypoxia and hypoxemia.[3] Hypoxia triggers pulmonary vasoconstriction and increases pulmonary artery pressures throughout the lung. The belief is that vascular remodeling secondary to abnormal smooth muscle production, a decrease in the intrinsic availability of nitric oxide, and poorly understood genetic predisposition all contribute to the development of HAPH. ## Epidemiology While some individuals experience the spectrum of acute mountain sickness, HAPH develops mainly in those who reside at high altitudes for extended periods. Those with preexisting pulmonary hypertension are at an even greater risk of developing acute mountain sickness because of worsening ambient hypoxia-associated hemodynamics exacerbating previously elevated high pulmonary artery pressures.[4] Only a limited amount of epidemiologic data regarding at-risk populations for HAPH is available. Some studies of South American populations report a prevalence of 18 to 55%, and the condition tends to be more common in men.[1][5] Lower rates of HAPH have been reported in premenopausal women compared to men living at high altitudes. The difference in reported incidence may be secondary to female sex hormones and an associated increase in ventilatory rate and drive.[6] ## Pathophysiology Hypoxic stress at high altitudes induces a variety of physiological changes. Many organ systems utilize vasodilation to enhance oxygen delivery in hypoxia. In contrast, the lung responds to hypoxia with increased pulmonary vasoconstriction. Blood is shunted away from poorly oxygenated lung zones towards healthy alveoli to minimize V/Q mismatch.[7] This intuitively makes sense in the setting of