these may be relevant for excluding other ILDs. The most common presenting symptoms of IPF include dyspnea on exertion and cough, often accompanied by fatigue. Diagnosis is frequently delayed, with many patients not receiving a diagnosis until more than a year after symptom onset. Given the nonspecific nature of symptoms and the idiopathic nature of the disease, it is essential to rule out other conditions before diagnosis. In evaluating patients for IPF, it is crucial to obtain a thorough medication and drug history, paying particular attention to medications associated with pulmonary toxicity, such as amiodarone and bleomycin. Additionally, assessing patients for symptoms suggestive of rheumatic diseases is important, including joint pain or inflammation, digital ulcers, dry eyes and mouth, fatigue, fever, hair loss, muscle weakness or pain, sensitivity to light, Raynaud phenomenon, skin thickening, and small red spots on the skin. Furthermore, other autoimmune-related disorders such as scleroderma, Sjögren disease, or polymyositis/dermatomyositis should also be considered and evaluated, as these conditions can manifest with ILD. The cough associated with IPF is typically dry and nonproductive. During the physical examination, attention should be given to assessing lung involvement, determining the extent and severity of the disease, and excluding other potential diagnoses. Classic pulmonary findings typically include fine bibasilar “velcro” crackles heard during inspiration. Clubbing of the fingers may also be present. To exclude autoimmune conditions, it is important to evaluate for signs such as skin rashes, joint swelling, sclerodactyly, Raynaud phenomenon, and muscle weakness. In advanced cases of IPF, patients may demonstrate exercise intolerance with minimal exertion or even exhibit resting hypoxemia.[33] ## Evaluation The diagnosis of IPF is primarily clinical, including identifying potential risk factors such as exposure to inhalation pollutants and manifestations of connective tissue diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, rashes, or skin manifestations. However, various evaluations can assist in confirming the diagnosis. **Laboratory and Pulmonary Function Testing** PFTs should be performed to assess for restrictive lung disease, which is characterized by decreased lung volumes (particularly decreased FVC, total lung capacity, and functional residual capacity) and decreased diffusion capacity. Other potential causes of restrictive ventilatory defects include chest wall abnormalities (eg, kyphoscoliosis), obesity (usually resulting in an isolated reduction in expiratory reserve volume (ERV)), or neuromuscular conditions (presenting with reduced TLC and VC but preserved RV).[34] When IPF is suspected, laboratory tests should be performed to exclude autoimmune disease. Commonly indicated tests include antinuclear antibodies and rheumatoid factors. However,