mPAP.[12] - Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors (ie, Acetazolamide) are useful in preventing acute mountain sickness. Studies have also shown a decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance.[1] However, Acetazolamide has not been studied specifically for treating HAPH, and the benefits may be minimal. Due to Acetazolamide's low side effect profile, it is safe to incorporate as a treatment option. - Endothelin receptor blockers (ie, Bosentan) have also been used to treat pulmonary hypertension. Some studies have shown that venovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation can be beneficial for severe cases in the acute setting. Despite all efforts and recommendations, if an individual develops irreversible pulmonary hypertension, the mainstay of treatment is pulmonary transplantation.[13] ## Differential Diagnosis Patients with HAPH can present with dyspnea on exertion, fatigue, chest pain, and peripheral edema. Other causes of heart failure and pulmonary hypertension to consider are: - Asthma - Congenital heart disease - Connective tissue disease - Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - Diastolic dysfunction - Interstitial lung disease - Systolic dysfunction ## Prognosis Early recognition and treatment are critical for the successful management and outcomes of any form of pulmonary hypertension. Treatments that decrease pulmonary artery pressures and maximize the right ventricle, such as pulmonary vasodilators, are the mainstay of chronic management. Despite optimal medical management, many patients still experience some degree of exercise intolerance, and others develop irreversible pulmonary hypertension and require pulmonary transplantation.[13] After transplantation, patients have a median survival of 10.7 years.[13] If unsuccessful, various palliative procedures can aid in maximizing right ventricular cardiac output. Few long-term studies have assessed the prognosis of HAPH. Some research suggests that mean pulmonary artery pressures can normalize in as little as 2 years after descent to lower altitudes but can increase with a return to high elevation.[1] ## Complications The most common complication of the condition is exercise intolerance, which most patients experience to some degree, regardless of optimized treatment and therapy. More severe complications of the condition include the advancement of the disease, right ventricular failure, and death.[13] ## Deterrence and Patient Education Patient education is essential for the successful management of pulmonary hypertension. Treatment with the appropriate medications and the patient's understanding of the importance of adherence to the regimen provides the greatest likelihood of the best clinical outcome. Healthcare providers should work with patients to help them manage their expectations for treatment outcomes. Some patients still experience significant exercise intolerance and may ultimately require pulmonary transplantation.