cases where imaging shows an atypical UIP pattern (described below) or when there is suspicion of connective tissue disease. Bronchoscopic biopsy yields are typically low as the pathologic changes start subpleurally, and it is primarily useful for excluding other processes. Although bronchoscopic cryo-biopsies have been used more recently for pathologic diagnosis, surgical lung biopsy remains the gold standard when a biopsy is warranted.[27] However, in patients with advanced disease and respiratory failure, the risks associated with lung biopsy may be significant. The histology of IPF typically appears nonspecific, showing heterogeneous zones encompassing both normal and affected lung tissue. Interstitial inflammation, honeycomb changes, and fibrosis are commonly observed, although these alterations may also be present in other forms of advanced lung disease. To establish a histological diagnosis of IPF, the following criteria should be met:[28] - Presence of foci of fibroblasts - Evidence of honeycombing or disruption of lung architecture - Patchy involvement of the lung by fibrosis - The absence of other features suggests an alternative diagnosis IPF typically conforms to the pattern of UIP. Macroscopically, interstitial fibrosis appears in a patchwork pattern, with scarred lung areas juxtaposed with regions of normal lung architecture. Fibrosis is evident in the subpleural and periseptal areas, extending into the peribronchial parenchyma. Distortion of lung architecture due to scarring is a hallmark feature of UIP. Additionally, UIP is characterized by "honeycomb" changes, which consist of clusters of dilated, mucin-filled epithelial-lined airspaces set against a fibrotic background. Microscopically visible honeycomb changes are referred to as "microscopic honeycomb changes." Features such as granulomas or giant cells indicative of alternative diagnoses should be absent (see **Image.** Histopathology of UIP in IPF).[29] ## History and Physical The typical age range for the onset of IPF in individuals is 60 and older. However, younger ages are more common in cases of familial IPF. Hence, obtaining a family history of premature gray hair, other signs of premature aging, and early-onset familial IPF should be a priority during clinical evaluation.[30][31][32] In addition, a thorough history should be taken to inquire about exposure to inhaled dust, metals, asbestos, mold, or birds, as these may be relevant for excluding other ILDs. The most common presenting symptoms of IPF include dyspnea on exertion and cough, often accompanied by fatigue. Diagnosis is frequently delayed, with many patients not receiving a diagnosis until more than a year after symptom onset. Given the nonspecific nature of symptoms