stroke, hyperthyroidism, anxiety, pain, fear, stress, drugs, medication-induced, and toxin-induced - Pulmonary causes: Embolism, pneumothorax, pneumonia, acute asthma or COPD exacerbations - Iatrogenic causes primarily occur in intubated patients on mechanical ventilation While ventilation is measured best by looking at CO2 partial pressures, oxygenation is measured by looking at oxygen partial pressures. In the clinical setting, the measurement of the amount of oxygen saturation in blood is via pulse oximeters. They provide a warning about the presence of hypoxemia to patients. The basis of pulse oximetry is on two principles: (1) the presence of a pulsatile signal that is generated by the arterial blood in the finger and (2) the different wavelengths generated by oxyhemoglobin and reduced hemoglobin. However, oxygenation and ventilation are 2 separate things. While pulse oximeter provides accurate measurement of oxygen saturation, it does not provide any information about alveolar ventilation. Oxygen saturation is considered a moderately later sign of less-than-desired ventilation; hence, despite providing visual quantification of oxygen saturation, pulse oximetry does not provide real-time assessment of alveolar ventilation. The best example of this principle is seen in conditions of sedation, which depresses the central respiratory drive to arterial carbon dioxide tension, resulting in arterial hypoxemia accompanied by alveolar hypoventilation. Although pulse oximetry is currently the standard of care for determining accurate oxygen saturation, it lacks the potential to provide early warning to detect hypoventilation, apnea, or airway obstruction in patients. Oxygenation involves inhaling O2, diffusing it through the alveolocapillary membrane into the blood that will supply peripheral tissues. Ventilation consists of the exchange of inspired and expired gases from the lungs, thereby involving the exchange of both oxygen and CO2. To measure expired CO2, it is essential to have sufficient circulation to facilitate the transport of CO2 to the lungs and out through the mouth. Evidence-based literature suggests that capnography is a better method for the evaluation of ventilation in patients with higher sensitivity at detecting apneic episodes than pulse oximetry. It monitors the end-tidal volume of carbon dioxide, which is more sensitive to alveolar hypoventilation than SpO2. The waveform of capnography divides into 4 phases. Phase I, II, and III occur during expiration, while phase IV occurs during inspiration. Phase I occurs during exhalation of air from anatomical dead space which contains no CO2. Phase II represents a steep upward slope indicating CO2 from the alveoli reaching the upper airway that is detectable in