between 12 mmHg to 15 mmHg. If this number is greater than the upper limit of that range, it indicates the presence of a pathology interfering with the gas exchange. Hypoxemia is the primary cause of changes in the A-a gradient. Calculation of the A-a gradient helps distinguish the fundamental pathogenic causes of hypoxemia. **Five Causes of Hypoxemia** - Diffusion limitation - Hypoventilation - Decreased FiO2 - Low ventilation-perfusion quotient - Shunt [9] Oxygen diffuses through the alveolar-capillary membrane and into the blood. It is carried in the blood bound to hemoglobin and transported to the tissues. Approximately 98.5% of all oxygen is bound to hemoglobin, and 1.5% dissolves in plasma. The hemoglobin molecule is composed of 4 subunits. Hydrophilic or charged amino acids (for example, Asp, Glu, Lys, Arg) form ionic bonds and hold the four subunits of heme in a quaternary structure. Oxygen can only bind when the hemoglobin switches from a tense to a relaxed form. One oxygen molecule binding increases the affinity of other oxygen molecules to bind to the heme molecule, thus promoting cooperative binding, which produces a sigmoidal dissociation curve.[10] Oxygen is delivered to the tissues, while carbon dioxide is the metabolite delivered back to the lungs. Carbon dioxide is the result of cellular metabolism in the mitochondria through the Kreb cycle. The amount of carbon dioxide produced metabolically depends on the relative amounts of carbohydrate, fat, and protein metabolized. Carbon dioxide is transported in blood from tissues to the lung in 3 ways: (1) dissolved in solution, (2) buffered with water as carbonic acid, or (3) bound to hemoglobin. Increased skeletal muscle activity results in localized increases in the partial pressure of carbon dioxide and reduces the blood pH. Carbonic anhydrase converts gaseous carbon dioxide to carbonic acid that in turn releases hydrogen ions. The decrease in pH causes a lower affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen, thus causing a rightward shift in the oxygen-hemoglobin dissociation curve.[11] Hemoglobin molecule transports oxygen from the lungs to peripheral tissues and picks up carbon dioxide metabolized from the peripheral tissues to the lungs. Oxygen binding to hemoglobin promotes the release of carbon dioxide, known as the Haldane effect. It is the result of 2 effects of oxygen binding on hemoglobin. First, the binding oxygen to hemoglobin reduces the affinity of the protein for carbon dioxide in the form of carbaminohemoglobin. Second, binding of oxygen to hemoglobin makes