phases. Phase I, II, and III occur during expiration, while phase IV occurs during inspiration. Phase I occurs during exhalation of air from anatomical dead space which contains no CO2. Phase II represents a steep upward slope indicating CO2 from the alveoli reaching the upper airway that is detectable in exhaled air. Phase III indicates the rick alveolar gas full of CO2 that now constitutes the majority of exhaled air. The end of phase III is the end of exhalation, end-tidal CO2 volume, which contains the highest amount of CO2. Normal EtCO2 is 35 to 45 mm Hg. Phase IV is when inhalation begins, and the level of CO2 begins to drop rapidly.[14] Capnography can measure ventilation by measuring end-tidal carbon dioxide (EtCO2). However, it does not provide a measure of any form of oxygenation. Conversely, pulse oximetry measures arterial oxygen saturation but is unable to provide a measure of alveolar hypoventilation or hyperventilation. Capnography will diagnose hypoventilation long before the latter results in hypoxia, and this is especially the case in patients receiving supplemental oxygen in intensive care units as well as anesthesia. In hypoventilation, tall (high PCO2) low-frequency waves manifest with a well-defined alveolar plateau. In hyperventilation, short (low PCO2) high-frequency waves with a well-defined alveolar plateau are seen.[15] In conditions like an obstructed airway, weakened respiratory muscle, or lung dysfunctions, abnormalities can be detected immediately from the CO2 waveform and PCO2. In pulse oximetry, since oxygen saturation reaches 100% during sedation and general anesthesia, changes in respiration are not detected unless the SpO2 falls below 100% in spite of the fall in PaO for some reason. For example, in the case when respiration stops while maintaining the SpO2 at 100%, the fall in SpO2 below 100% only occurs after 4 to 5 minutes. With capnography, the CO2 waveform ceases as soon as apnea occurs. Additionally, in cases of deep sedation where there is an increased risk of airway obstruction, CO2 monitoring provides early detection of airway obstruction.[16] In conclusion, pulse oximetry and capnography individually offer two useful non-invasive techniques to facilitate respiratory monitoring in clinical settings. A proper grasp of the benefits and limitations of each of the techniques can significantly aid in patient management and safety.[17] ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Pulse oximetry and capnography can help elucidate underlying pathology and help the medical team provide appropriate care without invasive monitoring. Understanding the indications and limitations