types of ventricular tachycardia with the morphology of the QRS complexes serving as clues to the cause responsible for the rhythm. In monomorphic ventricular tachycardia, which is more common, the QRS complexes are identical because there is increased automaticity originating from a single focus in either of the ventricles or a re-entry circuit within the ventricle. The most common cause for monomorphic ventricular tachycardia is scarring of the myocardium from myocardial infarction, which promotes the development of an electrical circuit around the non-conducting fibrotic tissue resulting in the formation of multiple circuits that potentially can evolve into a re-entrant ventricular tachyarrhythmia.[5] In polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, the QRS complexes vary in morphology and usually result from inherent genetic mutations that disrupt the ion channel function of cardiac myocytes and cause electrophysiological abnormalities during ventricular repolarization.[6] Congenital conditions predisposing to polymorphic ventricular tachycardia usually exhibit prolongation of the QT interval on the EKG. Acquired etiologies that may lead to the development of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia also include drug toxicity of antiarrhythmic drugs, antibiotics, and antipsychotic medications that prolong the QT interval. ## History and Physical Before the event, patients with pulseless ventricular tachycardia may complain of chest pain, palpitations, dyspnea, light-headedness, and syncope. On physical examination, there will be signs of impaired perfusion, hypotension, tachypnea, elevated jugular venous pressure, and S1 heart sound. Sudden collapse results from ineffective ventricular contractions and low cardiac output. At the time of the event, patients with pulseless ventricular tachycardia are unconscious and unresponsive without a palpable pulse. Any delay in starting defibrillation dramatically reduces survival, and death may occur in a few minutes. ## Evaluation The diagnosis of pulseless VT is based on physical examination and ECG. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation, according to Advanced Cardiac Life Support guidelines, should be started immediately as far as the diagnosis is confirmed. ECG findings usually include regular R-R intervals, rapid ventricular rate with an undistinguishable atrial rate (absence of p-waves), AV dissociation, and a wide QRS complex (more than 0.12 sec).[7] Several ECG criteria have been created to help diagnose VT.[8] These criteria include: **The Classical Criteria:** - AV dissociation - Capture or fusion beats - Negative or positive concordance - Right bundle branch configuration - QRS width >140 ms and left axis - QR, R, or RSr' complex in V1 - RS >1 in V6 or QS in V6 - Left bundle branch configuration - QRS width >160 ms and