products of cellular metabolism are water and carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide is an acid, and when it accumulates, it causes respiratory acidosis, which can lead to a lowering of the pH and can have a profound effect on cellular homeostasis and can also lead to cellular death. It becomes essential to monitor the levels of carbon dioxide during procedural sedation through capnography. Capnography is a method of monitoring the concentration or partial pressure of carbon dioxide in the respiratory gases.[2] ## Function There are multiple current clinical uses of pulse oximetry in primary care. In stable underlying lung disease patients, pulse oximetry (SpO2) is helpful for the following\[3\]: - To establish a baseline value. - Monitoring the patients with exercise-related dyspnea. - A screening tool to identify patients with underlying lung disease (with SpO2 less than 92%) - Stable underlying lung disease or recovering from an exacerbation; a SpO2 88% or less qualifies for oxygen therapy - Titrating the rate of flow of oxygen in patients on long-term oxygen therapy - the target is resting and ambulatory pulse oximetry around 88% to 92% During a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or an asthma exacerbation, pulse oximetry is helpful to:[4] - Evaluate patients with severe disease (defined as forced expiratory volume in 1 sec (FEV1) of less than 50% predicted), cyanosis, or cor pulmonale for possible respiratory insufficiency/failure - Assess patients with acutely worsening symptoms, especially shortness of breath - Determine how severe is the exacerbation based on pulse oximetry and partial pressure of oxygen in an arterial blood gas - based on this physician can determine whether the patient is treatable on an outpatient basis or needs in-hospital treatment - Titrating oxygen therapy during exacerbation of any underlying lung disease - COPD, asthma, interstitial lung diseases, pulmonary fibrosis, etc. Clinical uses of Capnography[5]\[6\]: - Confirmation of tracheal intubation - Assessing tracheal tube and tracheostomy patency and position - Monitor adequate ventilator support - During percutaneous tracheostomy placement - Monitoring patients with raised intracranial pressure - Monitoring response to treatment of bronchospasm - Estimation of cardiac output - Use during cardiac arrest - Measures kinetics of carbon dioxide (CO2) elimination on a breath-by-breath basis ## Issues of Concern Pulse oximeters have some limitations. They can only employ light at two wavelengths. Thus the devices can only distinguish between hemoglobin and oxygenated hemoglobin. When carboxyhemoglobin and methemoglobin are also present, there are