arrest - Measures kinetics of carbon dioxide (CO2) elimination on a breath-by-breath basis ## Issues of Concern Pulse oximeters have some limitations. They can only employ light at two wavelengths. Thus the devices can only distinguish between hemoglobin and oxygenated hemoglobin. When carboxyhemoglobin and methemoglobin are also present, there are two additional wavelengths required for differentiation. In the presence of elevated carboxyhemoglobin levels, pulse oximetry overestimates the true saturation of oxygen as carboxyhemoglobin binds with a higher affinity than oxygen. In the case of carbon monoxide poisoning, the absorbance spectrum of carbon monoxide is very similar to hemoglobin, which results in a falsely high level of oxygen (overestimation of oxygen saturation).[7] ## Clinical Significance The oxygen that reaches the trachea is calculated as the percent of oxygen in the air, i.e., that is 0.21 times the atmospheric partial pressure. This number comes to 160 mmHg. The amount of oxygen that reaches our alveoli gets calculated via the alveolar gas equation. - PAO2 = (Patm - PH2O) FiO2 - PaCO2/RQ[8] Patm is the atmospheric pressure (at sea level 760 mmHg), PH2O is the partial pressure of water (approximately 45 mmHg). FiO2 is the fraction of inspired oxygen. PaCO2 is the partial pressure of carbon dioxide in alveoli (in normal physiological conditions around 40 to 45 mmHg). RQ is the respiratory quotient. The value of the RQ can vary depending upon the type of diet and metabolic state. RQ is different for carbohydrates, fats, and proteins (average value is around 0.82 for the average human diet). The calculated partial pressure of oxygen, from the alveolar gas equation that reaches our alveoli, is 100 mmHg. However, not all of the 100mmHg diffuses out and dissolves in the arteries to reach the peripheral tissues. The A-a gradient explains this discrepancy. It is calculated by the difference between the partial pressure of oxygen in arteries and the partial pressure of oxygen in alveoli (PAO2 - PaO2). The A-a gradient indicates the effectiveness of gas exchange across the alveolocapillary membrane. This gradient widens when there is a pathology. The normal range of the A-a gradient is between 12 mmHg to 15 mmHg. If this number is greater than the upper limit of that range, it indicates the presence of a pathology interfering with the gas exchange. Hypoxemia is the primary cause of changes in the A-a gradient. Calculation of the A-a gradient helps distinguish the fundamental