in PCO2 over a few minutes. In cases of chronic respiratory acidosis, HCO3- will have increased by four mEq/L for every ten mmHg increase in PCO2 over a time course of days. If the compensation does not occur in this pattern, a mixed respiratory-metabolic disorder may be present. In a patient who presents with unexplained respiratory acidosis, a drug screen may also be warranted.[7][8] ## Treatment / Management Once the diagnosis has been made, the underlying cause of respiratory acidosis has to be treated. The hypercapnia should be corrected gradually because rapid alkalization of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) may lead to seizures. Pharmacologic therapy can also be used to help improve ventilation. Bronchodilators like beta-agonists, anticholinergic drugs, and methylxanthines can be used in treating patients with obstructive airway diseases. Naloxone can be used in patients who overdose on opioid use.[9][10] ## Differential Diagnosis - Botulism - Bronchitis - Diaphragm disorders - Diaphragmatic paralysis - Asthma - Opioid use - Sedative, hypnotic, anxiolytic use disorder - Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) - Obesity ## Pearls and Other Issues Patients who are moribund, lethargic, or confused need to be monitored in the intensive care unit (ICU). Those who exhibit hypoventilation will need endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation. The use of respiratory stimulants has not been shown to be effective in treating respiratory acidosis. Medroxyprogesterone has been used to stimulate the respiratory drive, but its benefits are questionable. Hypoxic patients, of course, need supplemental oxygen. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes The diagnosis of respiratory acidosis is easily made from an arterial blood gas but its management is complex. All healthcare workers including the nurse practitioners must be familiar with the management of respiratory acidosis. Once the diagnosis has been made, the underlying cause of respiratory acidosis has to be treated. The hypercapnia should be corrected gradually because rapid alkalization of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) may lead to seizures. Pharmacologic therapy can also be used to help improve ventilation. Bronchodilators like beta-agonists, anticholinergic drugs, and methylxanthines can be used in treating patients with obstructive airway diseases. Naloxone can be used in patients who overdose on opioids. Patients who are moribund, lethargic, or confused need to be monitored in the intensive care unit (ICU). Those who exhibit hypoventilation will need endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation. The use of CNS stimulants has not been shown to improve the condition and thus empirical prescription of these drugs