Urine alkalinization also decreases the precipitation of uric acid, corrects underlying metabolic acidosis, and reduces the risk of hyperkalemia. Most data regarding the alkalinization of the urine are from uncontrolled case series. Adding 50 mEq of sodium bicarbonate to half-normal saline is the traditional method to alkalinize urine. Alkalinization with a bicarbonate infusion is associated with the precipitation of hypocalcemia, which can trigger tetany and seizures. The goal of alkaline fluid infusion is to maintain a serum pH not to exceed 7.5 and a urine pH just above 6.5. Bicarbonate in IV fluids should be promptly discontinued when serum pH is at 7.5.[57] Mannitol is commonly used to improve urine output in patients with a crush injury but should only be initiated after the patient maintains adequate urine output of at least 20 mL/h. There are no specific conscientious guidelines regarding mannitol administration. A trial of intravenous infusion of 60 mL of 20% mannitol given over 5 minutes can be used to assess for increased urine output. If there is an increase in urine output of 30 to 50 mL/h compared to the baseline, mannitol can be continued.[58] Mannitol should be avoided in patients with AKI, oliguria, or anuria. Adverse events associated with mannitol use are volume overload and hyperosmolality. The current literature does not support concomitantly using mannitol and bicarbonate to prevent pigment-induced acute kidney injury.[59][60] Every attempt should be made to prevent the development or worsening of hyperkalemia. Potassium-containing IV fluids like Ringer's lactate should be avoided. A combination of oral sodium polystyrene sulfate and sorbitol is commonly given to patients with crush injuries and hyperkalemia. The role of new potassium-binding agents is unclear because of a lack of studies. Appropriate use of point-of-care devices and electrocardiography should be utilized in patients with suspected hyperkalemia.[61] Patients with crush syndrome should have a Foley catheter placed; IV fluids should be given to maintain urine output at 200 to 300 mL/h. Adequate IV fluid resuscitation should be continued until myoglobinuria is wholly resolved and CPK levels are down-trending. Foley catheters should be used for the shortest time possible to minimize complications like infection. Consideration should be given to loop diuretics in patients with volume overload states. Appropriate use of hemodialysis can be used with anuric AKI, hyperkalemia, and volume overload after conservative measures fail. Peritoneal dialysis is not preferred in the setting of trauma. **Management of Nontraumatic Rhabdomyolysis** Rhabdomyolysis from