use, insect bites, heat exertion, recent surgical procedures, accidents, recent increasing dosages of regularly used medications, new medications, or over-the-counter supplements. A high index of suspicion is sometimes necessary when diagnosing rhabdomyolysis. Patients with underlying myopathy may have atrophic or hypertrophic muscles. The clinical features of rhabdomyolysis can be nonspecific. Rhabdomyolysis has both local and systemic features, with early and late complications. Local features include bruising, swelling, and tenderness. Systemic features include fever, malaise, nausea, confusion, agitation, delirium, tea-colored urine, or anuria.[49] In trauma patients with rhabdomyolysis, a detailed examination of distal pulses and the peripheral nerve should be evaluated for limb ischemia, compartment syndrome, and peripheral neuropathy. Signs of dehydration, such as dry oral mucosa and decreased skin turgor, should be noted. Early recognition of rhabdomyolysis is critical to preventing complications. ## Evaluation After documenting vital signs, basic laboratory studies should be obtained. The studies should include a complete blood count, comprehensive metabolic panel, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, serum CPK, and urinalysis. Additionally, chest radiography and electrocardiography should be performed. In addition to CPK, lactate dehydrogenase, aldolase, alanine aminotransferase, and aspartate aminotransferase are enzymes released from muscles during rhabdomyolysis, but serum elevations of these enzymes are nonspecific. Elevated inflammatory markers and a leukocytosis are also nonspecific for rhabdomyolysis. Elevated serum CPK levels are the hallmark of rhabdomyolysis. In addition, reddish-brown urine from myoglobinuria may be present in about 50% of cases. However, the peroxidase agent used on a urine dipstick to detect blood with also react with myoglobin. Microscopic urinalysis differentiates myoglobinuria from hemoglobinuria, as myoglobinuria is associated with an absence of red blood cells.[50] The normal range of serum CPK is 20 to 200 U/L. Usually, an elevation of 5 times the upper limit of normal is considered necessary to diagnose rhabdomyolysis.[36] CPK exists in 4 significant isoenzymes: CK-MM, CK-MB 1 and 2, and CK-BB. CK-MM is most specific for skeletal muscle, CK-MB 1 and 2 are specific for cardiac muscle, and CK-BB is specific for the brain. The half-life of CPK is 36 hours; serum CPK levels begin to rise within 2 to 12 hours after the injury and peak within 1 to 5 days. Levels start to decline after 3 to 5 days without further muscle injury.[3][51] In general, CPK levels of more than 5000 IU/L will have some amount of significant muscle injury and place patients at higher risk of AKI.[3] The half-life of