AKI. The first step in effective management is identifying the underlying cause of the muscle injury and removing that stimulus, if possible. The active management of rhabdomyolysis should include continuous assessment of the airway, breathing, and circulation, frequent physical examinations, appropriate hydration to improve end-organ perfusion, close monitoring of urine output, correction of electrolyte abnormalities, and identification of complications like compartment syndrome and disseminated intravascular coagulation. **Management of Traumatic Rhabdomyolysis** In patients with a crush injury or injuries, initiating intravenous (IV) hydration and fluid resuscitation should begin as early as possible, ideally in the field and, when possible, before relieving the injurious stimulus. Hydration should be continued during transport. Delaying fluid resuscitation may cause worsening hypovolemia secondary to third spacing. Fluids should be liberally administered to maintain adequate intravascular volume and diuresis; volumes of 10 L to 20 L may be required.[54] Multiple studies have demonstrated the benefit of large-volume resuscitation in patients with crush injuries to prevent rhabdomyolysis-related AKI and reduce the need for hemodialysis. Patients trapped for longer periods may have already developed AKI by the time they present at the hospital; aggressive fluid resuscitation in these patients is particularly challenging, as they are prone to volume overload.[55] Unfortunately, no studies have directly compared the outcomes of different types and rates of fluid resuscitation. Current International Society of Nephrology Renal Disaster Relief Task Force guidelines recommend field resuscitation with isotonic saline rather than alkaline fluids.[56] The addition of dextrose to normal saline can be beneficial in supplying some calories and minimizing hyperkalemia. Two liters should be administered at 1 L/h for the first 2 hours, followed by 500 mL/h in a well-built adult. The rate of fluid administration is also dependent on age, gender, body habitus, the possibility of bleeding, and the nature of trauma. Potassium-containing IV fluids like Ringer's lactate are generally avoided in managing rhabdomyolysis. Once hospitalized, close monitoring of urine output is essential. After confirming urine output and obtaining labs documenting the absence of alkalosis, consideration should be given to the alkalinization of urine to prevent the precipitation of myoglobin in the distal convoluted tubule. Urine alkalinization also decreases the precipitation of uric acid, corrects underlying metabolic acidosis, and reduces the risk of hyperkalemia. Most data regarding the alkalinization of the urine are from uncontrolled case series. Adding 50 mEq of sodium bicarbonate to half-normal saline is the traditional method to alkalinize urine. Alkalinization with