elevation in creatinine phosphokinase to medical emergencies like compartment syndrome, intravascular fluid depletion, disseminated intravascular coagulation, pigment-induced acute kidney injury (AKI), and cardiac arrhythmias. Laboratory diagnosis of rhabdomyolysis is based on elevations of serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK), the most sensitive laboratory evaluation of muscle injury; there is no specific established diagnostic serum level of CPK. Many clinicians use 3 to 5 times the upper limit of normal values of 100 to 400 U/L (approximately 1000 U/liter) for diagnosis. However, the elevation of CPK level does not determine the severity of muscle damage and renal injury.[3] Rhabdomyolysis is a major cause of AKI.[4] If identified early, the prognosis of AKI from rhabdomyolysis is relatively benign.[5] Alternative causes for AKI, like dehydration, sepsis, and pharmaceutical-induced adverse effects, should always be considered. Seizures, alcohol use, drugs, and prolonged bedridden state are common causes of nontraumatic rhabdomyolysis.[6] Other rare causes of rhabdomyolysis include Haff disease, mushroom poisonings, and genetic disorders.[7][8] Recognition of rhabdomyolysis can be traced back to the time when Israelites suffered from rhabdomyolysis-like symptoms after consumption of quail during their departure from Egypt. This myolysis resulted from consuming quails that ate poisonous plants (to which the quails are not susceptible) during the spring migration. A similar clinical presentation has also been reported from the Mediterranean region after consuming robins, chaffinches, and skylarks, as these birds are also not susceptible to the active alkaloids from hemlock and other poisonous herbs. In more recent times, war, earthquakes, and other man-made and natural disasters have resulted in crush injuries.[1] In 1943, Bywaters and Stead identified myoglobin as the offending agent for brown urine acute tubular necrosis through animal experiments.[9][10] ## Etiology The etiology of rhabdomyolysis can be classified into two broad categories: traumatic or physical causes and nontraumatic or nonphysical causes.[11] Many situations are multifactorial, and it is possible that genetic susceptibility, along with one or more external insults, causes rhabdomyolysis.[12] Careful history-taking, a comprehensive physical examination, and laboratory studies can help identify the cause of rhabdomyolysis. In addition, multiple cohort studies have shown different causes at different frequencies for rhabdomyolysis depending on the hospital location and community behaviors. **Traumatic or Physical Causes** Traumatic or physical compression rhabdomyolysis can occur in different settings. Subclinical elevation of creatinine phosphokinase, myoglobinemia, and myoglobinuria following physical exertion is common. Some traumatic etiologies include the following: - Polytrauma, motor vehicle accidents, mining accidents, and earthquakes, particularly in patients who