Severity and duration of the renal injury are the most significant prognostic indicators.[3] There is also a correlation between the severity and duration of crush injury and the need for hemodialysis.[64] ## Complications The most significant complications of rhabdomyolysis include: - Acute kidney injury - Electrolyte abnormalities - Arrhythmias - Compartment syndrome - Disseminated intravascular coagulation - End-stage renal disease requiring renal replacement therapy - Infections from a prolonged hospital stay. ## Consultations Acute rhabdomyolysis patients, both traumatic and nontraumatic, with AKI, hyperkalemia, compartment syndrome, hypotension, or arrhythmias, should be admitted to the ICU and may require ventilatory support. Consulting critical care, nephrologist, trauma surgeon, vascular surgeon, or orthopedic surgeon may be needed depending on the severity and cause of rhabdomyolysis. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Patients with rhabdomyolysis should be educated about the risk factors and how they can avoid this in the future. Patients with suspected inflammatory and metabolic myopathies need further workup, including biopsy. Survivors of traumatic rhabdomyolysis syndrome may need counseling and medications if needed. For patients diagnosed with genetic metabolic abnormalities, family members should be screened for heritable causes. ## Pearls and Other Issues - Rhabdomyolysis can be classified into traumatic and non-traumatic causes. - Elevated CPK levels are the most sensitive test for diagnosis. - Usually, CPK levels must be higher than 5000 U/L for systemic damage to occur, but other factors can also affect this. - Patients with crush injury or massive trauma are at risk for compartment syndrome. Checking distal pulses and measuring compartment pressures are key to monitoring for this. Compartment pressures over 30 mm Hg place patients at high risk for muscle ischemia. - DIC can also occur with rhabdomyolysis due to activated platelets and a proinflammatory state. - The key to minimizing kidney injury is to maintain high urine output and alkalinization of urine to avoid cast precipitation. - Patient's with recurrent rhabdomyolysis or who develop this condition with minimal trauma or exertion should be screened for genetic abnormalities. - People with sickle cell trait are at risk of rhabdomyolysis and special precautions should be taken with organized sports and physical exertion. - The symptoms of genetic myopathies can sometimes be treated by dietary changes. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Many studies on rhabdomyolysis management lack good quality randomized control trials. Rhabdomyolysis can have significant morbidity on the patient, and the key is education on prevention. When patients are