is a necessary test when metabolic myopathies are suspected. The timing of muscle biopsy is crucial in the identification of appropriate diseases. Rhabdomyolysis can be associated with excessive muscle fiber necrosis, and obtaining a biopsy during acute injury may miss an underlying myopathy. The current literature recommends muscle biopsy only after complete recovery from rhabdomyolysis. The European Federation of Neurological Societies (EFNS) Scientist Panels suggests patients with muscle pain, weakness, CPK elevation 2 to 3 times normal, myoglobinuria, hypertrophic or atrophic muscles, and electromyography suggestive of myopathy can undergo muscle biopsy at the time of presentation.[47] Specific stains can help identify different types of myopathies. Glycogen storage disorders can be identified by periodic acid Schiff and hematoxylin and eosin staining showing glycogen-containing vacuoles. Succinyl dehydrogenase and cytochrome oxidase staining, along with Gomori trichrome staining, identify ragged red fibers in patients with mitochondrial myopathies. Immunohistochemistry can identify enzyme deficiencies like phosphokinase and myophosphorylase deficiencies.[33] Kidney biopsy in patients with AKI from rhabdomyolysis may reveal varied findings. The earliest findings of tubular changes can be visualized via light microscopy as early as 1 to 12 hours after injury. Findings typical of this stage include dilated Bowman spaces with a ruptured glomerular membrane and reduced glomerular tufts with flattened podocytes. Significant necrosis with loss of microvilli and reduction in basal infolding is seen in the proximal convoluted tubule. Electron microscopy clearly shows electron-dense casts occupying the entire distal tubular lumen.[48] ## History and Physical Even though muscle pain, weakness, and tea-colored urine are the characteristic triad of rhabdomyolysis, these findings are seen in less than one-half of patients. Muscle pain is the most common presenting symptom and is reported in about 50% of adults with rhabdomyolysis, and dark-colored urine is seen in about 30% to 40%.[11] Weakness typically involves proximal muscle groups. Nonspecific symptoms like muscle cramps, stiffness, muscle swelling, weakness, malaise, abdominal pain, nausea, palpitations, and fever may be present. In patients with known myopathies, weakness is the most common complaint in adults but less so in children. Depending on the cause of rhabdomyolysis, patients may report a history of illicit drug use, insect bites, heat exertion, recent surgical procedures, accidents, recent increasing dosages of regularly used medications, new medications, or over-the-counter supplements. A high index of suspicion is sometimes necessary when diagnosing rhabdomyolysis. Patients with underlying myopathy may have atrophic or hypertrophic muscles. The clinical features of rhabdomyolysis can be nonspecific.