level of anesthesia, it may cause intense sympathetic stimulation and worsen the patient’s pulmonary hypertension.[4] cAdding a benzodiazepine and/or opioid during induction will help decrease a sympathetic response.[6] The overall goals are to avoid changes in preload, systemic vascular resistance, and contractility for the right ventricle to maintain cardiac output.[3] Ventilation: Once the airway is secured, the anesthesiologist may begin ventilator management and use volatile inhaled anesthetics to maintain anesthesia. It is preferred to begin with low tidal volumes, 6 ml/kg, and keep peak airway pressures under 30 mm Hg.[6] Ventilator settings should include a higher fraction of inspired oxygen, hyperventilation if necessary to maintain partial pressure of exhaled carbon dioxide between 30 to 35 mm Hg, and positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP), ideally between 5 and 10 cm water.[4] Increase the fraction of inspired oxygen rather than PEEP to improve oxygenation because increasing levels of PEEP will begin to compromise preload and cause systemic hypotension. One-lung ventilation should be avoided if at all possible. Blood flow decreases to the non-ventilated lung, causing an acute exacerbation of pulmonary hypertension due to hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction.[6] Medications: Pharmacologic therapies for pulmonary hypertension continue to emerge. The vasodilator drugs that are widely used for treatment are prostanoids, endothelin receptor antagonists, nitric oxide, and phosphodiesterase inhibitors.[9] Prostanoids mimic prostacyclins and produce vasodilation and inhibit platelet aggregation. Epoprostenol, an intravenous medication, has been shown to reduce mortality. Endothelin is a vasoconstrictor; therefore, endothelin antagonists help with vasodilation. They also have anti-inflammatory effects and decrease the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle.[10] These medications are only available in oral form and have shown improvement in hemodynamics and exercise capacity. Nitric oxide stimulates pulmonary vasodilation by stimulating guanylate cyclase and subsequently cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). Unfortunately, the effects are short because cGMP is rapidly degraded by phosphodiesterase. Continuously inhaled nitric oxide is commonly used in the perioperative period. Phosphodiesterase inhibitors, such as sildenafil and tadalafil, are more appropriate for chronic therapy and have shown benefits for patients with pulmonary hypertension due to left heart disease. However, there are no clear benefits for phosphodiesterase inhibitors in pulmonary hypertension due to chronic lung or thromboembolic disease.[11] If the patient was recently diagnosed with pulmonary hypertension, then sildenafil, a phosphodiesterase inhibitor, is a possible preoperative treatment to prevent pulmonary hypertension exacerbations.[3] ## Issues of Concern The anesthesiologist needs to balance blood pressure, fluid management, oxygenation, and acid-base physiology throughout the procedure. Unfortunately,