anesthesiologist must optimize blood pressure with vasodilators or vasopressors, oxygenation, and ventilation, avoid exacerbating factors, and control pain throughout the procedure to help achieve the best perioperative outcomes.[6] This review article will discuss the general considerations for perioperative anesthesia management for patients with pulmonary hypertension with or without subsequent right heart ventricular failure who are undergoing non-cardiac surgery. ## Function Preoperative Evaluation: The preoperative evaluation should include a thorough history and physical exam. It is not uncommon for patients to have undiagnosed pulmonary hypertension on the day of surgery. Patients with mild pulmonary hypertension may complain of generalized fatigue, whereas patients with more severe disease complain of angina, near syncope, and syncopal episodes. Physical exam findings correlating with right ventricular dysfunction are distended neck veins, tricuspid regurgitation, S3 gallop, hepatomegaly, abdominal ascites, and peripheral edema. If the patient presents with dyspnea at rest, syncope, or hypoxemia on the day of surgery, it should be rescheduled if it is not emergent. Additionally, a right heart catheterization should be considered if the patient has known severe disease or new evidence of right heart dysfunction.[4][7][8] Preoperative labs and imaging are beneficial for knowing the current status of the patient’s disease and developing an anesthetic plan. Hemoglobin and hematocrit, a comprehensive metabolic panel to assess renal and liver function, and an electrocardiogram, echocardiogram, and chest radiograph should be obtained and reviewed.[5] For patients with unknown disease status, pulmonary function testing and arterial blood gas should be considered.[4] The anesthesiologist needs to be familiar with the procedure, especially those with increased risk to the patient. For example, insufflation during laparoscopic procedures can increase abdominal pressure high enough to impede lung compliance or decrease venous return. It may also precipitate a respiratory acidosis that requires increasing minute ventilation or sodium bicarbonate to correct.[6] Orthopedic procedures utilizing cement may produce profound hypotension requiring immediate action. They also have an increased risk for fat or cement emboli.[4] Before proceeding, if not an emergent case, the surgery team needs to consider the risk-benefit ratio, and the anesthesiologist needs to verify that he or she has the available tools to manage acute right ventricular failure should it occur.[6] Patients should be medically optimized to lower pulmonary vascular resistance and improve right ventricular function prior to surgery if possible. Intraoperative Monitoring: The American Society of Anesthesiologists recommends that a pulse oximeter, electrocardiography, blood pressure device, and temperature monitoring should be applied