manage acute right ventricular failure should it occur.[6] Patients should be medically optimized to lower pulmonary vascular resistance and improve right ventricular function prior to surgery if possible. Intraoperative Monitoring: The American Society of Anesthesiologists recommends that a pulse oximeter, electrocardiography, blood pressure device, and temperature monitoring should be applied for all surgical cases. Additional and more invasive monitoring may be required for patients with multiple or advanced comorbidities. With pulmonary hypertension, an indwelling arterial catheter can be inserted to provide continuous systemic blood pressure monitoring as well as access to arterial blood gas samples. The arterial line allows for quick intervention and determining the appropriate ventilatory management.[2] A central venous catheter with a pulmonary artery catheter should be placed to monitor central venous and pulmonary artery pressures and targeted therapy for vasopressors, vasodilators, and fluids. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) can be used to evaluate the right ventricle. The mid-esophageal four-chamber view is ideal for measuring the dimensions of the right ventricle. A right ventricle that is volume overloaded will shift the septal wall to the left during diastole, causing the left ventricle to look like the letter “D.” If the right ventricle is pressure overloaded, it shifts the septal wall during systole.[8] TEE can also be utilized to calculate the pulmonary artery pressure and evaluate volume status.[5][6] Induction: General anesthesia is a common anesthetic approach for patients with pulmonary hypertension. Peripheral nerve blocks and/or epidurals are helpful for perioperative pain control. Uncontrolled pain can be a trigger for a pulmonary hypertension exacerbation. Spinal anesthesia should be avoided because of the rapid onset and profound sympatholytic effects.[6] Prior to induction, the patient should be pre-oxygenated with 100% oxygen to increase their functional residual capacity and avoid hypoxemia. Etomidate, a quick-onset sedation agent, is ideal for induction because it minimally affects cardiac function and systemic vascular resistance and is generally well tolerated with pulmonary hypertension. Intravenous or nebulized treatments with prostanoids or nitric oxide can be given to minimize pulmonary hypertensive responses to intubation.[6] A rapid sequence induction with an experienced provider is preferred. If laryngoscopy is attempted before achieving a deep level of anesthesia, it may cause intense sympathetic stimulation and worsen the patient’s pulmonary hypertension.[4] cAdding a benzodiazepine and/or opioid during induction will help decrease a sympathetic response.[6] The overall goals are to avoid changes in preload, systemic vascular resistance, and contractility for the right ventricle to maintain cardiac output.[3]