lactate, not lactic acid. Administration of Ringer’s lactate will cause an excess of lactate, which will be utilized by the body for energy. However, in today’s practicing culture, there tends to be an emphasis on blood lactate levels.[3] This emphasis can lead to confusion in the interpretation of lactic acid levels. The adverse effect of worsening lactic acid is not seen with Ringer’s lactate. Ringer’s lactate also has a calcium concentration which prohibits its use as a diluent for blood transfusions. Some blood products use citrate as an anticoagulant and, when mixed with calcium, leads to the precipitation of calcium citrate, which may cause clotting and obstruction of the IV line. Patients can receive blood products and Ringer’s lactate simultaneously; however, not within the same line. As with any IV fluid administration, there is a possibility of swelling and edema. At-risk patients are those with congestive heart failure, chronic kidney disease, liver cirrhosis, and hypoalbuminemia. These patients must be monitored during IV administration with serial physical exams to determine if they are becoming clinically hypervolemic. Further adverse effects may include allergic reactions ranging from mild local redness and itching to generalized symptoms, local infection, redness, and even regional cellulitis, which can progress to systemic infection if not intervened. Many of these symptoms may be secondary to the actual intravenous site access rather than the contents of Ringer’s lactate itself. Allergic reactions are more common with adhesive dressings to secure IV access rather than the contents of Ringer’s lactate itself. IV infiltration is also a possibility, which can cause localized swelling, redness, and pain and ultimately is treated with conservative management and replacement of the IV access. Infection therapy can include local to systemic antibiotic therapy, depending on the severity. ## Contraindications Not an absolute contraindication, but more of a consideration, is the administration of Ringer’s lactate in patients with liver dysfunction. Most of the lactate is metabolized in the liver, and any hepatic dysfunction will result in an accumulation of lactate. This can confuse the interpretation of lactate levels. In the acute setting, patients with cerebral edema requiring osmotic therapy should avoid all hypotonic or isotonic fluid, including Ringer’s lactate. The goal of therapy is to draw out free water from brain parenchyma using hypertonic fluid administration. Although studies have compared the 2, a single study compared conventional fluid resuscitation versus hypertonic saline in hypotensive patients with traumatic brain injury