the extracellular fluid compartment is about 33%. The extracellular fluid compartment can further be broken down into the interstitial fluid, approximately 75% to 80% of the extracellular compartment, and intravascular, approximately 20% to 25% of the extracellular compartment. Osmolarity among all fluid compartments at any given time will remain equal or actively equalizing, as water-free flows between all compartments. Tonicity is a measure of the osmotic (water) gradient between 2 fluids across a semipermeable membrane and is a relative concept between these two fluids. When describing a fluid in terms of tonicity, in other words, hypotonic, isotonic, or hypertonic, tonicity refers to the osmotic gradient between the intracellular and extracellular compartments. Thus, isotonic fluid is given intravenously (IV) does not move across into the intracellular compartment but does distribute across the entire extracellular compartment (interstitial and intravascular), usually proportionally to the compartment volumes (interstitial 75% to 80%, intravascular 20% to 25%). ## Administration Ringer’s lactate is administered most commonly via IV route but may also be safely administered intraosseously. The goal of administering Ringer's lactate is to replenish the intravascular volume to permit adequate organ perfusion.[4] ## Adverse Effects There is a fear of Ringer’s lactate causing hyperkalemia and worsening lactic acidosis. To put it in perspective, Ringer’s lactate does include a concentration of potassium 4 mEq/L. Logically, giving a hyperkalemic patient additional potassium would worsen hyperkalemia; however, this is not the case. A patient's potassium volume of distribution is larger than the extracellular compartment and equilibrates between the intracellular and extracellular compartments. Therefore, giving a patient, even a patient with renal failure, 4 mEq/L of potassium is not an additive effect.[5] In fact, giving Ringer’s lactate to a patient with hyperkalemia will trend the patient’s potassium level to 4 mEq/L.[6][7] Furthermore, patients' hyperkalemia may worsen with metabolic acidosis. Consequently, large-volume IV administration of normal saline may give patients a hyperchloremic non-anion gap metabolic acidosis. Ringer’s lactate does not have this effect. Ringer’s lactate is often avoided in septic patients secondary to the fear of worsening lactic acidosis. This is also untrue, as the content of Ringer’s lactate is sodium lactate, not lactic acid. Administration of Ringer’s lactate will cause an excess of lactate, which will be utilized by the body for energy. However, in today’s practicing culture, there tends to be an emphasis on blood lactate levels.[3] This emphasis can lead to confusion in the interpretation of lactic acid