should avoid all hypotonic or isotonic fluid, including Ringer’s lactate. The goal of therapy is to draw out free water from brain parenchyma using hypertonic fluid administration. Although studies have compared the 2, a single study compared conventional fluid resuscitation versus hypertonic saline in hypotensive patients with traumatic brain injury in the prehospital setting. Findings were nearly identical neurological function 6 months after the injury between the 2 groups; however, conventional therapy is to avoid isotonic saline in the acute setting.[8] ## Monitoring Patients on any intravenous fluid replacement need to be monitored for fluid overload. As stated above, any crystalloid fluid distributes across the extracellular fluid compartment equally in an approximately 3 to 1 ratio (interstitial: intravascular) under normal physiologic conditions. That is to say, giving 1 L of Ringer’s lactate causes only 250 mL to remain in the intravascular fluid compartment. Giving too much crystalloid fluid causes fluid overload that can progressively worsen peripheral and pulmonary edema. High-risk patients at high risk for fluid overload include those with congestive heart failure, renal disease, and liver cirrhosis. In these cases, IV fluid administration should proceed cautiously.[9] Additionally, monitoring of electrolytes may be warranted with Ringer’s lactate administration. Given that Ringer’s lactate contains sodium and potassium, it may be warranted to check these levels frequently in some cases. The sodium concentration in Ringer’s lactate is less than the physiologic range in plasma, and large amounts of administration can drive sodium levels to hyponatremic ranges. With a concentration of 130 mEq/L, administration of this fluid brings the plasma sodium concentration closer to 130 mEq and, depending on the clinical situation, and hyponatremia should be avoided.[10][11] Monitoring of the site of infusion and IV access is necessary to make sure that the fluid is, in fact, being delivered into the vein. IV sites should be monitored for any signs of infiltration, redness, pain, swelling, or discomfort. If present, the infusion should be stopped, and other IV access should be established. Infusion-site monitoring holds across all IV access sites with any drug administration, not just to Ringer’s lactate. ## Toxicity The toxicity of Ringer’s lactate is more associated with volume overload due to IV fluid administration rather than the contents of Ringer’s lactate itself. As previously stated, excessive IV fluid administration can cause fluid overload. Patients may present anywhere on the spectrum from mild peripheral edema to respiratory distress secondary pulmonary edema. Symptomatic