MDMA and cathinones. ## Treatment / Management Initial management includes continuous cardiac monitoring, maintaining a patent airway, and prioritizing breathing and circulation. For the agitated patient, temporary physical restraints may help gain pharmacologic control. They should be discontinued as soon as possible to avoid the development or worsening of rhabdomyolysis and heat generation. A core temperature (rectally or bladder) greater than 105 °F (40.5 °C) represents rapid life-threatening hyperthermia and takes precedence after initial airway evaluation.[25] Treatment of hyperthermia involves both rapid sedation to control agitation and external cooling. External cooling with whole-body ice-water immersion is effective for treating life-threatening hyperthermia.[28][29][30] Sedation with IV benzodiazepines such as diazepam (10 mg) or lorazepam (2 mg) is the first-line treatment for agitation secondary to acute amphetamine toxicity.[31] The predictable pharmacokinetics, high therapeutic index, and anti-epileptic activity of benzodiazepines make for an effective treatment for undifferentiated agitated patients. If IV access is unavailable, intramuscular doses of midazolam are effective. Sedation should be titrated rapidly until the patient is calm.[32] Rhabdomyolysis from acute amphetamine toxicity occurs from psychomotor agitation and hyperthermia. Supportive care with IV hydration should maintain a urine output of at least 1 to 2 mL/kg/h. Urine acidification may increase elimination and decrease the half-life of amphetamines. Still, it is not recommended since it does not decrease toxicity and increases the risk of acute kidney injury (AKI) from rhabdomyolysis.[33][34] Hemodialysis may be required in patients with renal failure, severe acidemia, and hyperkalemia. Given the limited evidence and potential harms, dantrolene is not recommended to treat amphetamine-induced hyperthermia.[35] ## Differential Diagnosis Differential diagnoses include the following: 1. Anticholinergic toxicity 1. Cholinergic toxicity 1. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome 1. Malignant hyperthermia 1. Serotonin syndrome 1. Monoamine oxidase inhibitor toxicity 1. Meningitis 1. Encephalitis 1. Heatstroke 1. Heat exhaustion 1. Rhabdomyolysis 1. Amphetamine toxicity 1. Cocaine toxicity ## Prognosis The 2 most frequently reported causes of death include hyperthermia and hyponatremia. While toxicity can be severe, a literature review reveals deaths related to MDMA toxicity are rare. Confounding factors include co-ingested drugs, making it challenging to determine if MDMA was the cause of death. Though deaths are rare, animal and radiological studies have demonstrated the potential for long-term adverse effects. In MDMA-treated monkeys, a loss of serotonin axon terminal markers was observed, leading to deficits in emotion, memory, and high-order cognitive processes. Positron emission tomography (PET) scans in baboons showed significant decreases in radioactivity levels in