aortic dissection, and intracranial hemorrhages.[8][20][21] Since MDMA undergoes metabolism via hepatic CYP2D6, severe hepatoxicity may occur, leading to fulminant liver failure.[22] Central nervous system (CNS) hyperactivity can lead to agitated delirium and seizures.[23][24] Because MDMA is a popular rave drug, the combination of intense physical activity with the sympathomimetic effects of the drug leads to an increase in body temperature that resembles heat stroke and could result in rhabdomyolysis.[25] Significant increases in fluid consumption by users coupled with the development of the syndrome of inappropriate diuretic syndrome (SIADH) may potentially contribute to the development of severe hyponatremia, leading to cerebral edema, seizures, and death.[26][27] ## Evaluation Diagnostic testing should be guided by the clinical presentation (history and physical exam). Initially, evaluation of the altered patient must include intravenous (IV) access, vital signs, rapid glucose check, and complete physical examination. Obtaining a core body temperature (rectal or bladder) is critical to diagnose life-threatening hyperthermia (>105 °F or >40.5 °C). Recommended lab tests are as follows: 1. Basic metabolic panel (BMP) to evaluate for: - Electrolyte abnormalities such as hyponatremia and hyperkalemia - Acute kidney injury - blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine (Cr) levels - Rhabdomyolysis - creatine phosphokinase (CPK) levels 1. Liver function tests (LFTs) to evaluate fulminant hepatic failure 1. Electrocardiogram (EKG) for screening tachyarrhythmias 1. Complete blood count (CBC), urinalysis, coagulation profile, chest radiography, computed tomography (CT) head scan, or lumbar puncture in the undifferentiated altered mental status patient 1. Qualitative urine immunoassays (urine drug screens) for amphetamines should not guide the clinical management of patients. The major limitation of amphetamine immunoassays is the high rate of false positives and false negatives. An actual positive result means that the patient used a certain amphetamine within the past several days and did not distinguish acute or recent use. The gold standard of drug testing, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis, may misidentify isomeric substances such as _l_ -methamphetamine (present in nasal inhalers) versus _d_ -methamphetamine. - Xenobiotics that cause false-positive qualitative amphetamine screens include pseudoephedrine, L-ephedrine, procainamide, mexiletine, selegiline, bupropion, trazodone, and amantadine. - Xenobiotics known to cause false negatives include MDMA and cathinones. ## Treatment / Management Initial management includes continuous cardiac monitoring, maintaining a patent airway, and prioritizing breathing and circulation. For the agitated patient, temporary physical restraints may help gain pharmacologic control. They should be discontinued as soon as possible to avoid the development or worsening of rhabdomyolysis