(more than 10%). The presence of two of these four clinical signs is necessary for the diagnosis of systemic inflammatory response syndrome. After that, systemic inflammatory response syndrome with an infectious source suffices the clinical definition for sepsis.[14] With the development of hypotension, tissue demands are not adequately met by tissue oxygenation, and the patient is now defined to be in severe sepsis.[14] The decline in peripheral vascular perfusion and oxygenation leads to cellular and metabolic derangements, most notably a shift from aerobic respiration to anaerobic respiration with ensuing lactic acidosis. Tissue hypoperfusion may also be manifested by signs of end-organ damage, such as pre-renal azotemia or transaminitis. The difference in oxygen supply and demand can be monitored during resuscitation by trending the mixed venous oxygen saturation from a central line in the superior vena cava (SVC) when available.[1] When sepsis-induced hypotension remains refractory to initial management with fluid resuscitation, septic shock ensues.[14] Septic shock is distinguished from other shock states as a distributive type of shock. The action of a combination of inflammatory mediators (histamine, serotonin, super-radicals, lysosomal enzymes) elaborated in response to bacterial endotoxins leads to a marked increase in capillary permeability and a concomitant reduction in peripheral vascular resistance. This translates not only into a reduction in afterload but also in preload from a decline in venous return from third-spacing. The resulting reduction in stroke volume is accommodated initially by an elevation in heart rate, i.e., compensated septic shock. As a result, the patient is in a hyperdynamic state that is characteristic of septic shock.[1] Clinically, patients have a dynamic precordium with tachycardia and bounding peripheral pulses. They are warm to the touch and have a reduction in capillary refill (flash cap refill). This is described as warm shock. As shock progresses, elevated catecholamine production leads to an increase in peripheral vascular resistance as the body attempts to shunt blood away from non-vital tissues (gastrointestinal (GI) tract, kidneys, muscle, and skin) to the vital tissues (brain and heart). This is described as cold shock. Understanding the pathophysiology and continuum of septic shock is imperative in initiating appropriate treatment measures.[1] Functionally, septic shock is defined by persistent hypotension despite adequate fluid resuscitation from 60 ml/kg to 80 mL/kg of either crystalloid or colloid fluid. At this point, the initiation of appropriate vasoactive medications such as beta-adrenergic or alpha-adrenergic drugs is of utmost importance. The progression of organ dysfunction