access.[23] Early goal-directed therapy (EGDT) has not been shown to confer a survival benefit in more recent studies.[24] All studies comparing EGDT to standard practice have shown an increase in the administration of crystalloid and packed red blood cells in the first six hours and the placement of central lines. Furthermore, survival was influenced most by the maintenance of blood pressure independent of the type of fluid or vasoactive used and not CVP or MVO2.[25] That said, the Surviving Sepsis Campaign guidelines continue to support EGDT as the standard of practice for the management of severe sepsis and septic shock. The placement of an arterial line becomes important in the management of vasoactive-refractory shock for close monitoring of blood pressure and tissue oxygenation status via regular blood gasses with key attention to lactate levels and pO2. Patients with sepsis have a high metabolism, and thus, prolonged starvation should be avoided. Early nutrition can help protect gut mucosa and prevent the translocation of organisms from the GI tract into systemic circulation. ## Differential Diagnosis - ARDS - DIC - Distributive shock - Hemorrhagic shock - Adrenal crisis - Cardiogenic shock - Toxic shock syndrome - Drug toxicity ## Prognosis Septic shock is a serious illness, and despite all the advances in medicine, it still carries high mortality, which can exceed 40%. Mortality does depend on many factors, including the type of organism, antibiotic sensitivity, number of organs affected, and patient age. The more factors that match SIRS, the higher the mortality. Data suggest that tachypnea and altered mental status are excellent predictors of poor outcomes. Finally, prolonged use of inotropes to maintain blood pressure is also associated with adverse outcomes. Even those who survive are left with significant functional and cognitive deficits. ## Complications - ARDS - Acute/chronic renal injury - DIC - Mesenteric ischemia - Acute liver failure - Myocardial dysfunction - Multiple organ failure ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes The management of septic shock is best done with an interprofessional team that includes ICU nurses. The key is early diagnosis and resuscitation to maintain end-organ perfusion. The type of fluid for resuscitation has little bearing on outcomes but the key is to maintain adequate perfusion pressure. Patients with sepsis are prone to many complications, which have high mortality. Thus, close monitoring and prevention of these complications are vital. Primary disorders like diabetes and renal or liver failure must be