that occurs from the release of potent systemic inflammatory markers such as interleukin-1, tumor necrosis factor-a, and interleukin-6. Additionally, higher levels of nitric oxide and peroxynitrite are released, which also contribute to pathologic vasodilation and are known to be cardiotoxic. Unless interrupted by adequate treatment measures, this self-perpetuating cycle leads to global hypoperfusion and the inability to effectively meet the metabolic demands of the tissues, progressing to multiorgan failure and eventually death. ## History and Physical The presenting symptoms of cardiogenic shock are variable. The most common clinical manifestations of shock, such as hypotension, altered mental status, oliguria, and cold, clammy skin, can be seen in patients with cardiogenic shock. History plays a very important role in understanding the etiology of the shock and thus helps in the management of cardiogenic shock. The patient should also be assessed for cardiac risk factors: - Diabetes mellitus - Tobacco smoking - Hypertension - Hyperlipidemia - A family history of premature coronary artery disease - Age older than 45 in men and older than 55 in women - Physical inactivity Physical examination findings in patients with cardiogenic shock include the following: - Altered mental status, cyanosis, cold and clammy skin, mottled extremities - Peripheral pulses are faint, rapid, and sometimes irregular if there is an underlying arrhythmia. - Jugular venous distension - Diminished heart sounds, S3 or S4, may be present, murmurs in the presence of valvular disorders such as mitral regurgitation or aortic stenosis. - Pulmonary vascular congestion may be associated with rales. - Peripheral edema may be present in the setting of fluid overload ## Evaluation Rapid diagnosis with prompt supportive therapy and coronary artery revascularization plays a vital role in achieving good outcomes in patients with cardiogenic shock.[8][9] Diagnostic evaluation of cardiogenic shock includes the following: - Complete blood picture, comprehensive metabolic panel, magnesium, phosphorous, coagulation profile, thyroid-stimulating hormone - Arterial blood gas - Lactate - Brain natriuretic peptide - Cardiac enzyme test - Chest x-ray - Electrocardiogram - Two-dimensional echocardiography - Ultrasonography to guide fluid management - Coronary angiography ## Treatment / Management Cardiogenic shock is an emergency requiring immediate resuscitative therapy before the irreversible damage of vital organs. Rapid diagnosis with prompt initiation of pharmacological therapy to maintain blood pressure and to maintain respiratory support along with a reversal of underlying cause plays a vital role in the prognosis of patients with cardiogenic shock.[10][4][11] Early restoration of coronary