Obstructive sleep apnea - Periodic limb movements of sleep - Narcolepsy - Obstructive and restrictive lung diseases - Patients with neuromuscular disease - Night shift workers and people who have variable sleep routines/patterns ## Prognosis Heart failure patients with CSA and CSB tend to have a worse prognosis, and treatment often includes optimization of heart failure therapy.[37] Adaptive servo-ventilation (ASV) is a therapy modality that delivers servo-controlled inspiratory pressure support on top of expiratory positive airway pressure. A recent study in 2015 showed that in patients with heart failure with reduced EF, ASV was associated with increased all-cause and cardiovascular mortality without any significant benefit. There was no improvement in either symptoms or quality of life.[38] There has been reportedly increased mortality in patients with heart failure with reduced EF in whom adaptive servo-ventilation was used.[39] ## Complications Patients with sleep apnea syndrome are at increased risk of systemic complications, including systemic hypertension, pulmonary hypertension, arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, sleep disturbances accompanied with excessive daytime sleepiness, mood disorders, chronic respiratory failure, narcolepsy, and hypercapnic respiratory failure.[40] ## Deterrence and Patient Education The patients and families need to understand the physiology and mechanism causing sleep apnea. During regular sleep, the air can move through the respiratory tract at a normal rhythm. Still, there is the transient cessation of air movement with resultant reduction in breathing in patients with central sleep apnea because of breathing control and rhythm changes. Central sleep apnea has a long-term impact on health and quality of life. Symptoms may include restless sleep, low energy, difficulty concentrating, memory impairment, and waking up unrested. The goal standard for diagnosis is a sleep study called polysomnogram that measures breathing effort and airflow, vitals, and blood oxygen level during different stages of sleep. Treatment includes identifying underlying causes and treating any precipitating factors. Ideally, these patients need to be evaluated by a sleep physician. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes For patients with central sleep apnea, a multidisciplinary approach is important to the patient's overall care. This may include a cardiologist in patients with heart failure to appropriately optimize treatment. The role of respiratory therapists and nurses is important in educating patients on proper techniques to use various machines and masks for non-invasive ventilation, which is a cornerstone of management in patients with central sleep apnea. Pharmacists form an integral component in evaluating and identifying any medications that may contribute to the