A recent study demonstrated an inverse relationship between the degree of subjective daytime sleepiness and mortality risk.[16] Thus, the presumptive diagnosis of sleep apnea should be considered in HF elderly patients with subjective complaints of fatigue even if they lack typical EDS. ## Evaluation Early detection and diagnosis of CSA can be challenging solely based on self-reported symptoms of disrupted sleep. Nocturnal polysomnography (PSG) is the gold standard diagnostic test in evaluating central apnea is nocturnal polysomnography (PSG). The diagnostic criteria for CSA were published by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM) in ICSD-3 [2] and varies according to the type of CSA.[17] It generally requires evidence of recurrent central apneas on PSG recording and exclusion of alternative diagnoses. Central apnea is defined as a cessation of flow during sleep for at least 10 seconds without effort (figure 1).[18] - Diagnosis of primary CSA can be made if PSG reveals ≥5 central apneas and/or central hypopneas per hour of sleep, with a total number of these central events being >50% of total respiratory events in the apnea-hypopnea index with no evidence of Cheyne-Stokes breathing (CSB).[18] Additionally, there must be at least one complaint related to disrupted sleep, i.e., sleepiness, insomnia, awakening with shortness of breath, snoring, or witnessed apneas. - Diagnosis of CSA with CSB requires the criteria of primary CSA with three or more consecutive central apneas or hypopneas separated by a crescendo–decrescendo respiratory pattern with a cycle length of ≥40 seconds. - Diagnosis of treatment-emergent central apnea requires to have a primary diagnosis of OSA (with an apnea-hypopnea index ≥ 5 obstructive respiratory events per hour of sleep) followed by resolution of the obstructive apnea and emergence or persistence of CSA (not explained by the presence of other disease or substance) during positive airway pressure (PAP) titration study. ## Treatment / Management The primary goals in CSA management are to stabilize sleep by suppressing abnormal respiratory events and optimizing the treatment of comorbid conditions. Positive airway pressure (PAP) remains a standard treatment for both central and obstructive apnea that can be delivered as continuous PAP (CPAP), Bi-level PAP therapy (BPAP), and adaptive servo-ventilation (ASV). Apart from PAP devices, additional therapeutic options include supplemental Oxygen, carbon dioxide, and pharmacologic agents. A longitudinal study demonstrated that CPAP and BPAP are more effective for CSA management in HF and opioid use.[19] The heterogeneity of disease necessitates individualized therapies for the