the pneumothorax. Patients with COPD and HIV have high mortality after pneumothorax. The mortality of SSP is 10%. Mortality of tension pneumothorax is high if appropriate measures are not taken. ## Complications - Respiratory failure or arrest - Cardiac arrest - Pyopneumothorax - Empyema - Rexpansion pulmonary edema - Pneumopericardium - Pneumoperitoneum - Pneumohemothorax - Bronchopulmonary fistula - Damage to the neurovascular bundle during tube thoracostomy - Pain and skin infection at the site of tube thoracostomy ## Consultations - Interventional radiologist - Thoracic surgeon - Pulmonology consultant ## Deterrence and Patient Education Patients with pneumothorax should be educated that they should not travel by air or to remote areas until after the complete resolution of pneumothorax. Patients with high-risk occupations like scuba divers and pilots should be advised not to dive or fly until definitive surgical management of their pneumothorax is done. All patients are advised to stop smoking. They should be assessed for their will to quit smoking; they should be educated and provided pharmacotherapy if they decide to leave. ## Pearls and Other Issues Do not let a chest radiograph or CT scan delay treatment with needle decompression or thoracostomy tube if the patient is clinically unstable, i.e., tension pneumothorax. Worsening subcutaneous emphysema can be associated with the malposition of a chest tube, and repositioning with a new chest tube is recommended. A chest tube should never be reinserted as this can increase the patient's risk for empyema. An untreated pneumothorax is a contraindication for flying or scuba diving. If air transport is required, a thoracostomy tube should be placed before transport. If there is a persistent or recurrent pneumothorax despite treatment with a thoracostomy tube, these patients need specialty consultations for a possible video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) with or without pleurodesis or thoracotomy. If the patient is discharged from the hospital after a resolved pneumothorax, recommendations should be made for no flying or scuba diving for a minimum of two weeks. Patients with a known history of spontaneous pneumothorax should not be medically cleared for occupations involving flying or scuba diving. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes The emergency department physician often does the management of pneumothorax. In some cases, the disorder may be managed by the ICU staff and the thoracic surgeon. The nurse does the care of patients who have a chest tube. All nurses who manage patients with a chest tube should know how