occurs in the presence of underlying lung disease, primarily chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; others may include tuberculosis, sarcoidosis, cystic fibrosis, malignancy, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, and pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia. Iatrogenic pneumothorax occurs due to a complication of a medical or surgical procedure. Thoracentesis is the most common cause. Traumatic pneumothoraces can result from blunt or penetrating trauma; these often create a one-way valve in the pleural space (letting the airflow in but not flow out) and hence hemodynamic compromise. Tension pneumothorax most commonly occurs in ICU settings in positive-pressure ventilated patients. ## History and Physical In primary spontaneous pneumothorax, the patient is minimally symptomatic, as otherwise healthy individuals tolerate physiologic consequences well. The most common symptoms are chest pain and shortness of breath. The chest pain is pleuritic, sharp, severe, and radiates to the ipsilateral shoulder. In SSP, dyspnea is more potent because of decreased underlying lung reserve. The history of pneumothorax in the past is essential as recurrence is seen in 15-40% of cases. Recurrence on the contralateral side can also occur. On examination, the following findings are noted - Respiratory discomfort - Increased respiratory rate - Asymmetrical lung expansion - Decreased tactile fremitus - Hyperresonant percussion note - Decreased intensity of breath sounds or absent breath sounds In tension pneumothorax following additional findings are seen - Tachycardia of more than 134 beats per minute - Hypotension - Jugular venous distension - Cyanosis - Respiratory failure - Cardiac arrest Some traumatic pneumothoraces are associated with subcutaneous emphysema. Pneumothorax may be difficult to diagnose from a physical exam, especially in a noisy trauma bay. However, it is essential to make the diagnosis of tension pneumothorax on a physical exam. ## Evaluation Chest radiography, ultrasonography, or CT can be used for diagnosis, although diagnosis from a chest x-ray is more common. Radiographic findings of 2.5 cm air space are equivalent to a 30% pneumothorax. Occult pneumothoraces may be diagnosed by CT but are usually clinically insignificant. The extended focused abdominal sonography for trauma (E-FAST) exam has been a more recent diagnostic tool for pneumothorax. The absence usually makes the diagnosis of ultrasound of lung sliding, the absence of a comet-tails artifact, and the presence of a lung point. Unfortunately, this diagnostic method is very operator dependent and sensitivity, and specificity can vary. In skilled hands, ultrasonography has up to a 94% sensitivity and 100% specificity (better than chest x-ray). If a patient