regression noted with ESES.[30] The EEG pattern in Landau-Kleffner syndrome is typically unilateral or lateralized.[31] Children with benign pediatric focal epileptic syndromes—benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes and late-onset childhood occipital epilepsy, Gastaut type—can present with relatively easy-to-control seizures and milder neuropsychological deficits. The EEG of these patients shows potentiation of the epileptiform activities during sleep but is much less prominent compared with near-continuous spike-wave abnormalities of ESES.[32] During acute stages of ESES, children may experience intractable atonic and absence seizures, closely mimicking Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. However, the tonic seizures of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome are typically absent in patients with ESES.[33] ## Prognosis Clinical seizures and EEG abnormalities spontaneously improve after puberty, with only a partial reversal of cognitive deterioration.[34] A longer duration of ESES may be associated with a poor outcome regarding cognitive impairment; EEG may continue to show focal or multifocal interictal abnormalities. ## Complications Inadequate treatment and delayed diagnosis may lead to a worse cognitive outcome in patients with ESES.[34] ## Deterrence and Patient Education Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), particularly levetiracetam, clobazam, and ethosuximide, can be used early after diagnosis. A few specific AEDs such as phenytoin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and oxcarbazepine are relatively contraindicated and should be discontinued. If there is no improvement in the EEG or cognition after 3 months of AED therapy, a corticosteroid regimen should merit consideration after carefully reviewing potential adverse events.[35] Polytherapy has been noted as effective in most patients. A select subgroup of patients with structural brain lesions may need evaluation for epilepsy surgery. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes The diagnosis and management of ESES are very complex and best conducted by an interprofessional team. The diagnosis usually requires an EEG capturing NREM sleep.[3] The treatment approach is promptly initiating appropriate AEDs and escalating to a corticosteroid regimen if needed. Because all patients have neuropsychiatric features, a mental health nurse should be involved in the care, assisting in evaluating patients, monitoring treatment progress, counseling patients and families about the condition, and reporting any concerns to the treating clinician. The pharmacist should educate the patient and caregivers about the drugs, their adverse effects, and potential benefits, check for drug interactions, and verify all dosing. Recovery is slow, so social workers should be involved to ensure that the patient has adequate support services. Long-term monitoring by the interprofessional team is vital to prevent instances of morbidity. ## Review Questions - [Access free multiple choice questions on