bronchitis - Cough induced by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors - Bordetella pertussis infection - Interstitial lung disease - Obesity - Recurrent oropharyngeal aspiration ## Prognosis The development and prognosis of asthma involve a complex interplay of genetic and environmental factors. Social determinants of health, such as poor housing quality and indoor and outdoor pollution, profoundly impact asthma prognosis. In the United States, asthma is a chronic illness characterized by a significant racial and ethnic disparity in both prevalence and prognosis. Underrepresented racial and ethnic minorities, as well as individuals living below the poverty line, experience higher morbidity rates, increased emergency room visits, hospitalizations, and mortality due to asthma.[43][44] Additionally, lack of access to healthcare—whether due to difficulties in accessing clinicians or lack of insurance—further exacerbates prognosis-related challenges. The international asthma mortality rate reaches as high as 0.86 deaths per 100,000 persons in certain countries. The overall prognosis is predominantly linked to lung function, with mortality rates 8 times higher among individuals in the bottom 25% of lung function. Several factors contribute to a poorer prognosis, including inadequate asthma management, age 40 or older, a history of more than 20 pack-years of cigarette smoking, blood eosinophilia, and FEV1 of 40% to 69% of predicted values ## Complications The complications related to asthma include disease-related complications and adverse effects of glucocorticoids, LTRA, and endotracheal intubation. The following list contains complications associated with asthma: - Decline in lung function - Osteoporosis - Fracture - Infections - Adrenal suppression - Hypertension - Diabetes - Cataract - Peptic ulcer - Sleep disorders - Obstructive sleep apnea - Mood disorders - Cardiac arrest - Glaucoma - Respiratory failure or arrest - Pneumothorax - Aspiration [45] ## Consultations Healthcare professionals should seek consultation with an asthma specialist in pulmonology or allergy when the diagnosis of asthma is uncertain, the patient's symptoms remain poorly controlled, medication adverse effects become intolerable, or the patient experiences frequent exacerbations. Accessing appropriate specialist care aids in excluding alternate diagnoses, determining the need for additional diagnostic testing, and effectively escalating medical therapy. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Patient education plays a pivotal role in the effective management of asthma by clinicians. To deter exacerbations and improve patient outcomes, clinicians should emphasize the importance of adherence to medication regimens, avoidance of triggers, and regular monitoring of symptoms. Educating patients about asthma triggers, such as allergens, air pollution, and tobacco smoke, can empower them to make