once the patient requires hospital admission, except in specific cases such as refractory asthma requiring treatment in the intensive care unit, concurrent treatment with monoamine oxidase inhibitors due to potential increased toxicity from sympathomimetic therapy due to impaired drug metabolism, presence of COPD with an asthmatic component, or asthma triggered by β-blocker therapy. As with outpatient management, patients also receive glucocorticoids equivalent to 40 to 60 mg of prednisone daily for 5 to 7 days. A systematic review reveals no difference between a higher dose and a longer course when compared to a lower dose with a shorter course of prednisone or prednisolone.[36] Oral and intravenous glucocorticoids have equivalent effects when administered in comparable doses. Intravenous steroids are necessary for patients with impending or actual respiratory arrest or who are intolerant of oral glucocorticoids. Some clinicians administer higher doses of glucocorticoids for severe asthma exacerbations based on their expert opinion and concern that a lower dose might be insufficient in a critically ill patient. **Magnesium sulfate** Per GINA guidelines, magnesium is not recommended for routine use in asthma exacerbations. However, a 1-time dose of 2 g given intravenously over 20 minutes reduces hospitalization rates in adults with an FEV1 less than 25% to 30% predicted on presentation and in those who fail to respond to initial treatment and continue to have hypoxemia. Nebulized MgSO4 is not beneficial in the management of an acute asthma exacerbation. A Cochrane Database review in 2014 concluded that a single infusion of intravenous MgSO4 for patients not responding to conventional therapy results in improved lung functions and fewer hospital admissions.[37] However, in a recent systematic review, the comparison of the same studies, eliminating those involving children and those containing only abstracts, revealed conflicting results. The review examined the effects of intravenous and nebulized MgSO4. Although 3 out of 9 studies addressing treatment with intravenous MgSO4 found a significant effect on lung function compared to placebo, these results are not statistically significant.[38] Only 2 of the 8 studies investigating hospital admission rates reveal a significant effect of MgSO4.[38] Conversely, 6 of the 9 studies investigating treatment with nebulized MgSO4 compared to placebo reveal a favorable effect on the FEV1 and peak expiratory flow rate.[38] These results somewhat contradict the Cochrane Database review conducted in 2014, which evaluated the same studies.[37] An additional study reveals a small benefit of adding inhaled magnesium to inhaled albuterol plus ipratropium