a monoclonal antibody against the IL-4 receptor α-subunit. Tezepelumab is a human monoclonal IgG2-λ antibody that binds to TSLP, preventing its interaction with the TSLP receptor complex.[32] **Acute Exacerbation** Patients experiencing an acute asthma exacerbation may manage symptoms at home or need urgent medical care depending on their symptom severity and risk factors for fatal asthma. These risk factors include prior life-threatening exacerbations, exacerbations despite glucocorticoid use, more than 1 asthma-related hospitalization or 3 emergency room visits in the past year, and comorbidities such as cardiovascular or chronic lung disease. Immediate medical attention is warranted for patients showing significant breathlessness, inability to speak beyond short phrases, reliance on accessory muscles, or peak flow measurements at 50% or less of their baseline measurement. All patients require a fast-acting β-agonist. Potential options include the LABA formoterol combined with ICS, the SABA albuterol combined with budesonide, or albuterol alone. Combination with ICS is the preferred choice. Albuterol dosing is 2 to 4 puffs from a metered dose inhaler (MDI) at home and 4 to 8 puffs in the office with a valved holding chamber or spacer every 20 minutes for 1 hour as needed. Albuterol may also be nebulized. ICS-formoterol dosing is 1 to 2 puffs every 20 minutes for 1 hour as required, with a maximum of 8 puffs per day. Patients whose symptoms improve after administering a bronchodilator and whose peak flow returns to 80% of their baseline or better can continue to manage their symptoms at home. Oral glucocorticoids equivalent to 40 to 60 mg prednisone daily for 5 to 7 days are warranted for the following patients: - Those experiencing recurrent symptoms over the following 1 to 2 days. - Those whose peak flow remains less than 80% of their normal baseline (high-dose ICSs are an alternative). - If they do not improve after 1 to 3 doses of a fast-acting bronchodilator. - If they have recently completed a course in OCS. - Those who are on a maximal dose of controller medications. Patients with a peak flow value of 50% or lower despite administering a bronchodilator or continuing to worsen should seek immediate medical care while continuing to administer their fast-acting bronchodilator. Office management is similar to home management, with the addition that according to GINA guidelines, all patients with oxygen saturation below 90% should receive oxygen to maintain saturation above 92% or 95% for pregnant individuals. Albuterol