a resuscitative thoracotomy. ## Differential Diagnosis Syncope is a temporary loss of consciousness that is usually caused by decreased blood flow to the brain. Patients who experience syncope are transiently unresponsive as are all individuals experiencing cardiac arrest. However, patients who are in cardiac arrest will not have a normal breathing pattern or a pulse, differentiating syncope from cardiac arrest. A seizure can also be mistaken for cardiac arrest. Patients having a seizure will be unresponsive and will probably have abnormal respirations. Abnormal rhythmic activity and a presence of a pulse differentiate seizure from cardiac arrest. Overdose, particularly from opiates, can lead to a patient who is unresponsive and not breathing normally. The presence of a pulse will differentiate opiate overdose from cardiac arrest. ## Prognosis Factors that are proven to improve survivability include witnessed cardiac arrest with immediate CPR and utilization of defibrillation when indicated.[16] Young and healthy patients are more likely to obtain ROSC compared to the elderly and those who have more co-morbidities. Those who are a victim of penetrating trauma have an increased chance of survival than blunt traumatic arrest. Studies have not shown proven benefit for ALS level of care in cardiac arrest, including endotracheal intubation and intravenous (IV) medication administration.[17] ## Complications Numerous complications can occur during a cardiac arrest. Although not common, the most detrimental complication for a patient in a shockable rhythm is AED failure. Other complications include inability to obtain IV/IO access. After ROSC, failing to secure and/ or maintain a definitive airway device could lead to a secondary cardiac arrest. During a traumatic etiology, malposition of needle thoracotomy or pericardiocentesis will also lead to complications. ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care If ROSC is obtained, the determination to provide targeted temperature management will be made. Candidates for targeted temperature management include those who have a medical etiology, are unresponsive and are stable. Targeted temperature management has shown to improve mortality and neurological outcomes in patients who have survived a medical cardiac arrest.[18] After stabilized from their cardiac event, the patient’s respiratory status is assessed. If the patient is unable to be successfully extubated, a tracheostomy can be placed to maintain a patent airway. To gain nutrition, a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube is commonly placed. Patients who require a tracheostomy and PEG tube placement will usually have a prolonged recovery time. These individuals are placed in long-term acute care (LTAC) facilities