are prone to syncope. Alcohol can also lead to orthostatic hypotension leading to syncope. Patients with cardiac illness should be educated about the symptoms of syncope and when to seek help as cardiac syncope has a high mortality, especially with advanced cardiac illness. ## Pearls and Other Issues - Cardiac syncope is a transient loss of consciousness due to a defect, either structural or electrical, which prevents the generation of enough cardiac output to perfuse the brain adequately. - Cardiac syncope is more common in patients with preexisting cardiac abnormalities or family histories of cardiac defects or sudden death. - When cardiac syncope is suspected, EKG and echocardiogram are very useful in making a definitive diagnosis. Long-term rhythm monitoring can be employed if these tools are unsuccessful. - Pacemaker placement can prevent future syncopal events due to a high-grade block or defect in conduction at the SA node, AV Node, bundles, or fascicles. - Implantable cardioverter-defibrillators can be used to prevent dangerous arrhythmias from precipitating a sudden cardiac death in patients with severe heart disease or symptomatic congenital channelopathies. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes The outcomes of patients with a treatable cause of cardiac syncope are good. Patients with advanced heart failure and syncope, however, have a 45% one-year mortality.[6] Patients with cardiac syncope are also more likely to have recurrent syncopal events with an estimated recurrence rate of 33% within 3 years. Recurrent syncope can worsen a patient's quality of life, especially if syncopal events result in broken bones, intracranial bleeds, or other traumatic injuries.[17] Cardiac syncope is often first identified by primary care providers and emergency department clinicians. Because cardiac syncope treatment does vary, it is important to refer the patient for a definitive workup. Treatment for cardiac syncope is offered to prevent the patient's morbidity, physical injuries, and monetary costs of recurrent syncopal events and prevent sudden cardiac death. The management of cardiac syncope varies widely and is essentially based on managing the specific condition which precipitated the syncopal event. High clinical suspicion and effective communication between emergency and primary care providers must ensure the patient receives adequate workup. The cardiac and emergency specialty nurse helps the clinical team monitor cardiac rhythms and report anomalies promptly. The nurse also plays an essential role in educating the patient about prodromal symptoms and possible complications so that the patient seeks medical care when needed. The cardiac pharmacist is critical