with this type of Takotsubo cardiomyopathy and the other kinds of Takotsubo Cardiomyopathy had reported triggers of emotional nature. About 36% had a physical trigger such as infection or respiratory failure, approximately 8% had both physical and emotional triggers, and 28.5% did not have any emotional or physical triggers identified.[4] ## Evaluation Evaluation of this type of stress cardiomyopathy involves an electrocardiogram to evaluated for ST-segment elevation commonly found in the anterior precordial leads. Data from the International Takotsubo Registry Study shows ST-segment elevation in approximately 44% of the patients with any type of Takotsubo cardiomyopathy.[4][10] Other less common electrocardiogram findings include ST-segment depression, QT interval prolongation, T wave inversion, and abnormal Q waves.[4][11][9][12] The absence of electrocardiogram changes is known to be specific for mid-ventricular Takotsubo cardiomyopathy. Cardiac enzymes are above the reference range in the majority of patients with mid-ventricular Takotsubo cardiomyopathy and other types of Takotsubo Cardiomyopathy. In the International Takotsubo Registry, the average initial troponin was approximately eight times the upper limit of normal in patients with Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, including mid-ventricular Takotsubo cardiomyopathy.[4] In a case, a seventy-seven-year-old female presented to the hospital with symptoms of chest pain. Her electrocardiogram changes were concerning of ischemia in the anterolateral wall. Her troponin-I was elevated and peaked at 0.11. The patient underwent a left heart catheterization, which showed normal coronaries, and a transthoracic echocardiogram showed akinesis to dyskinesis of the mid-anteroseptum, mid-inferoseptum, mid-inferior wall, mid-anterior wall, and the mid-anterolateral wall. This pattern is consistent with mid-ventricular takotsubo cardiomyopathy. ## Treatment / Management This type of Takotsubo cardiomyopathy is a transient disorder that is managed conservatively with supportive therapy. A provider should first focus on eliminating the physical and emotional stressors, which might help subside the patient's symptoms. However, a specific subset of these patients might develop acute decompensated congestive heart failure, and subsequently, cardiogenic shock. The treatment of such patients is based on heart failure and shock management guidelines. It is essential to delineate left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction in these patients as it is imperative to prevent volume depletion and vasodilator therapy. Therefore an urgent transthoracic echocardiogram in patients who are in cardiogenic shock and suspected to have LVOT obstruction is essential in the early management of these patients. Patients with mid-ventricular Takotsubo cardiomyopathy are also at risk of developing an intraventricular thrombus in the setting of severe left ventricular dysfunction. Approximately 1% to 1.5% of