of lung sliding, the absence of a comet-tails artifact, and the presence of a lung point. Unfortunately, this diagnostic method is very operator dependent and sensitivity, and specificity can vary. In skilled hands, ultrasonography has up to a 94% sensitivity and 100% specificity (better than chest x-ray). If a patient is hemodynamically unstable with suspected tension pneumothorax, intervention is not withheld to await imaging (see **Image.** Portable Chest Radiograph, Left Deep Sulcus Pneumothorax). Needle decompression can be performed if the patient is hemodynamically unstable with a convincing history and physical exam, indicating tension pneumothorax.[7][8][9][10][11] ## Treatment / Management Management depends on the clinical scenario. For patients with associated symptoms and showing signs of instability, needle decompression is the treatment of a pneumothorax. This usually is performed with a 14- to 16-gauge and 4.5 cm in length angiocatheter, just superior to the rib in the second intercostal space in the midclavicular line. After needle decompression or stable pneumothoraces, the treatment is inserting a thoracostomy tube. This usually is placed above the rib in the fifth intercostal space anterior to the midaxillary line. The size of the thoracostomy tube usually ranges depending on the patient's height and weight and whether there is an associated hemothorax. Open "sucking" chest wounds are treated initially with a three-sided occlusive dressing. Further treatment may require tube thoracostomy and chest wall defect repair. In an asymptomatic small primary spontaneous pneumothorax (depth less than 2cm), the patient is usually discharged with follow-up in outpatient after 2-4 weeks. If the patient is symptomatic or the depth/size is more than 2cm, needle aspiration is done; after aspiration, if the patient improves and residual depth is less than 2cm, then the patient is discharged; otherwise, tube thoracostomy is done. In secondary spontaneous pneumothorax, if the size/depth of pneumothorax is less than 1cm and there is no dyspnea, the patient is admitted, high-flow oxygen is given, and observation is done for 24 hours. If size/ depth is between 1-2cm, needle aspiration is done, then the residual size of pneumothorax is seen; if the depth after the needle aspiration is less than 1cm, management is done with oxygen inhalation and observation, and in case of more than 2cm, tube thoracostomy is done. In case of depth more than 2cm or breathlessness, a tube thoracostomy is done. Air can reabsorb from the pleural space at a rate of 1.5%/day. Using supplemental oxygen can increase