management is done with oxygen inhalation and observation, and in case of more than 2cm, tube thoracostomy is done. In case of depth more than 2cm or breathlessness, a tube thoracostomy is done. Air can reabsorb from the pleural space at a rate of 1.5%/day. Using supplemental oxygen can increase this reabsorption rate. By increasing the fraction of inspired oxygen concentration, the nitrogen of atmospheric air is displaced, changing the pressure gradient between the air in the pleural space and the capillaries. Pneumothorax on chest radiography approximately 25% or larger usually needs treatment with needle aspiration if symptomatic, and if it fails, then tube thoracostomy is done. **Indications for surgical intervention(VATS vs. thoracotomy)** - Continuous air leak for longer than seven days - Bilateral pneumothoraces - The first episode in high-risk profession patients, i.e., Divers, pilots - Recurrent ipsilateral pneumothorax - Contralateral pneumothorax - Patients who have AIDS Patients undergoing video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) get pleurodesis to occlude pleural space. Mechanical pleurodesis with bleb/bullectomy decreases the recurrence rate of pneumothorax to \<5%. Options for mechanical pleurodesis include stripping the parietal pleura versus using an abrasive "scratchpad" or dry gauze. A chemical pleurodesis is an option for patients who may not tolerate mechanical pleurodesis. Options for chemical pleurodesis include talc, tetracycline, doxycycline, or minocycline, all irritants to the pleural lining. ## Differential Diagnosis Differential diagnoses of pneumothorax include: - Aspiration, bacterial or viral pneumonia - Acute aortic dissection - Myocardial infarction - Pulmonary embolism - Acute pericarditis - Esophageal spasm - Esophageal rupture - Rib fracture - Diaphragmatic injuries ## Prognosis PSP is usually benign and mostly resolves independently without any significant intervention. Recurrence can occur for up to three years period. The recurrence rate in the following five years is 30% for PSP and 43% for SSP. The risk of recurrence increases with each subsequent pneumothorax; it is 30% with the first, 40% after a send, and more than 50% after the third recurrence. PSP is not considered a significant health threat, but deaths have been reported. SSPs are more lethal depending on underlying lung disease and the size of the pneumothorax. Patients with COPD and HIV have high mortality after pneumothorax. The mortality of SSP is 10%. Mortality of tension pneumothorax is high if appropriate measures are not taken. ## Complications - Respiratory failure or arrest - Cardiac arrest - Pyopneumothorax - Empyema - Rexpansion pulmonary edema - Pneumopericardium