gel and minimal pressure, evaluate the unaffected testicle first. 1. Scan the testicle in its entirety in both the transverse and longitudinal planes. Scan with grayscale first while noting the presence of fluid collections and testicular texture. A normal testicular is around 4 x 3 x 2.5cm. In the longitudinal plan or long axis, the testicle appears as an oval structure with homogenous echotexture and smooth, rounded borders. In the transverse plane or short axis, the testicle appears as a circular structure with homogenous echotexture and smooth, rounded borders. Side-by-side comparison of the testicles is critical to evaluate for size, fluid collections, changes of echotexture, and discrepancies of color Doppler. If the testicle is torsed, there will often be a hydrocele present with a testicle with reduced color or power flow. Color flow Doppler must be applied to both the affected and unaffected testicle of the patient. Begin with the unaffected testicle to gain a sense of what normal vascular flow looks like in this particular patient. Power Doppler is useful in the evaluation of testicular vascular flow as well. Power Doppler has greater sensitivity for vascular flow but does not allow the examiner to discern between arterial and venous flow. Doppler can be employed to evaluate for both venous and arterial flow by placing the Doppler gate on areas of vascular flow and evaluating for both venous and arterial Doppler waveforms. Arterial waveforms will have large spikes due to the peaks of arterial blood pressure, whereas venous waveforms typically appear as plateaus of Doppler flow. Applying Doppler and checking for both venous and arterial flow can further demonstrate the severity of the torsion. The same technique will be employed on the affected testicle. Assessment for pyuria with urine analysis is typically part of the acute scrotal pain workup. The presence of pyuria is consistent with epididymitis, orchitis, or urinary tract infection but does not rule out the possibility of testicular torsion. [5][6] ## Treatment / Management Ultrasound is not a perfect test for testicular torsion, especially in the very young. For example, 40% of neonatal testicles may have no apparent color flow Doppler. If the clinical concern is high, seek urologic surgery consultation immediately. Any delay in treatment could result in testicular necrosis and loss. The typical window of opportunity for surgical intervention and testicular salvage is 6 hours from the onset of pain. Therefore, early urologic surgery consultation