these may be the presenting complaint rather than scrotal pain. The testicle may be in an abnormal or transverse lie and maybe in a high position. The testicle may be swollen, erythematous, and have an absence of the normal cremasteric reflex; however, it should be noted that the presence or absence of the cremasteric reflex is not as sensitive as once thought. Additionally, the cremasteric reflex is unreliable in young patients, especially those under one year old. The Prehn sign is not reliable for predicting torsion (relief of pain with testicle elevation). Torsion of the testicular appendages is more common and not dangerous. During early onset, this may be differentiated from testicular torsion by maximal tenderness to palpation near the head of the epididymis or testis, an isolated tender nodule, and/or a blue dot appearance on the testis. The characteristic blue dot is due to the cyanotic torsed appendage. The testicular appendage tends to calcify and degenerate over two weeks, and typically, no surgical intervention is required. Other differential diagnoses to be considered are epididymitis, orchitis, inguinal hernia, symptomatic hydrocele, testicular necrosis of other etiology, and scrotal hematoma. ## Evaluation The TWIST scoring system is often used to determine the presence of testicular torsion. It has been validated in several studies in ruling out torsion. The TWIST tool includes: Hard testis - 2 Swelling - 2 Nausea/vomiting - 1 Absent cremasteric reflex - 1 High riding testis - 1 The higher the score, the greater the probability that the patient has torsion. Ultrasound is recommended for those with low scores. Those with high TWIST scores can be taken for surgery without ultrasound. Ultrasound is the primary diagnostic modality beyond the physical exam. Ultrasound for testicular torsion is approximately 93% sensitive and 100% specific. Trained sonographers should perform this exam in a timely manner. The point-of-care ultrasound technique to evaluate the testicle involves the high-frequency transducer (5 to 10 MHz), ample ultrasound gel, and proper patient positioning. The process is described in brief below: 1. Place the patient supine and frog-legged with a towel under the scrotum for support. Using ample gel and minimal pressure, evaluate the unaffected testicle first. 1. Scan the testicle in its entirety in both the transverse and longitudinal planes. Scan with grayscale first while noting the presence of fluid collections and testicular texture. A normal testicular is around 4 x 3 x 2.5cm. In the longitudinal