present to the emergency department. Testicular torsion is caused by the twisting of the blood supply and spermatic cord. The tunica vaginalis is usually solidly adhered to the posterolateral aspect of the testicle, and within it, the spermatic cord is not mobile. If the attachment of the tunica vaginalis is high, then this allows the spermatic cord to twist inside, leading to intravaginal torsion. This defect is referred to as the bell clapper deformity and is bilateral in at least 2/5ths of cases. On the other hand, neonates tend to develop extravaginal torsion. This occurs because the tunica vaginalis has not adhered to the gubernaculum, and thus, both the tunica vaginalis and spermatic cord are prone to torsion. This pathology can occur weeks or months prior to birth and is treated in a different manner. However, it is important to know that neonates can also present with intravaginal torsion. Testicular torsion has been known to occur in the presence of testicular malignancy in adults. ## Epidemiology The majority of cases occur in the adolescent age range (during periods of growth) but can occur at any age as well as pre- or perinatal. Testicular torsion is the most significant cause of testicular loss. ## Pathophysiology As the testicle twists around the spermatic cord, venous blood flow is cut off, leading to venous congestion and ischemia of the testicle. The testicle will become tender, swollen, and possibly erythematous. As the testicle further twists, the arterial blood supply is cut off, which leads to further testicular ischemia and, eventually, necrosis. [4] In most individuals, the testicle rotates between 90-180 degrees and compromises blood flow. Complete torsion is rare and quickly decreases the viability of the testes. Salvage is possible if the torsion is less than 8 hours, but rare if more than 24 hours have elapsed. ## History and Physical Testicular torsion often presents as an abrupt onset of unilateral scrotal pain. The pain may be constant or intermittent but not positional. The patient may have associated symptoms of nausea or vomiting. There may be associated lower abdominal and inguinal pain, or alternatively, these may be the presenting complaint rather than scrotal pain. The testicle may be in an abnormal or transverse lie and maybe in a high position. The testicle may be swollen, erythematous, and have an absence of the normal cremasteric reflex; however, it should be noted that the presence or