apparent color flow Doppler. If the clinical concern is high, seek urologic surgery consultation immediately. Any delay in treatment could result in testicular necrosis and loss. The typical window of opportunity for surgical intervention and testicular salvage is 6 hours from the onset of pain. Therefore, early urologic surgery consultation upon presentation may be critical even in the absence of confirmatory testing. Manual detorsion should be attempted if urological intervention is not immediately available. The abnormal testicle should be rotated in a medial to lateral direction (open book) 180 degrees and then evaluated for pain relief. If the pain is increased, consider rotating the testicle in the opposite direction. Ultrasound can also be used serially to evaluate for return of blood flow at the bedside. If unsuccessful, further manual detorsion may be attempted as the testicle can twist 180 degrees.[4][7][8] In neonates, bilateral scrotal exploration is done. Contralateral orchiopexy is always done to prevent future torsion. Patients who require an orchiectomy for a non-viable testis usually have a testicular prosthesis inserted. The prosthesis is usually inserted 4-6 months after the initial surgery to allow for the inflammation to subside ## Differential Diagnosis - Testis tumor - Epididymitis - Hydrocele - Traumatic hematoma - Orchitis ## Prognosis Over the years, there has been a marked improvement in the salvage of the testes following torsion. However, poor results still occur, especially in African Americans, young patients, and those who lack health insurance. The best results are obtained if the surgery is done within 8 hours of symptoms. However, recurrence can also occur after orchiopexy. ## Complications - Loss of testis - Infection - Infertility - Cosmetic deformity - Loss or diminished exocrine and endocrine function in men ## Pearls and Other Issues Ultrasound is a sensitive and specific test for the evaluation of testicular torsion. Early urology involvement is crucial to avoid testicular loss. The use of color flow is essential in the evaluation of testicular torsion. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Testicular torsion is a surgical emergency that almost always presents to the emergency department. The disorder is usually managed by an interprofessional team. The first person to encounter the patient is the triage nurse, who must be familiar with the symptoms of the disorder. Time is of the essence, and the nurse should be aware of torsion, quickly admit the patient, and quickly notify the ED physician. The ED physician