blood pressure (BP) cuffs approved to use in monoplace chambers. Ventilator support may be given in the chamber, which is common in patients who sustained an inhalation injury. Fluid management is crucial in burn patients and needs to be initiated before HBO therapy is started. Several liters of fluid may be needed in the acute phase of the injury, and pumps may be needed to overcome the chamber pressure during HBO treatments.[7] ## Complications Though hyperbaric therapy is generally well tolerated, it is important to consider potential complications that can arise in patients receiving treatment. Barotrauma to hollow organs of the body is the most frequent side effect for which patients should be carefully monitored. The most common barotraumatic injury is middle ear barotrauma, which includes middle ear effusions and tympanic membrane rupture, with an incidence of about 2%. This side effect can mitigated with careful patient instructions regarding autoinflation techniques during treatment.[8] Barotrauma can also involve the sinuses and is typically found in patients with upper respiratory infections or allergic rhinitis. Patients should be carefully screened for these preconditions and may even be given antihistamines or nasal decongestants to mitigate potential complications during therapy sessions.[8] Pulmonary barotrauma, though less common, is another important complication to remember. Before hyperbaric therapy is initiated, patients should be fully evaluated for a pre-existing pneumothorax, which should be managed before starting treatment. An untreated pneumothorax is the only absolute contraindication to hyperbaric therapy.[9] Systemic oxygen toxicity from hyperbaric therapy can also cause a rare yet concerning side effect: seizures. Hyperic-induced seizures have an incidence of about 0.011%, according to a retrospective analysis of 2,334 patients.[10] They have also been associated with patients receiving certain medications, including insulin, steroids, thyroid replacement therapy, and sympathomimetics, and thus, patients on these medications should be carefully monitored during sessions.[11] If seizures do occur, they should be managed acutely by reducing the Fi02 concentration to that of air (21%), administering anticonvulsant therapy, and stopping hyperbaric treatment as soon as possible.[9] ## Clinical Significance **In summary, HBO therapy during the first 24 hours of burn has shown to:** 1. Decrease edema by vasoconstriction and decrease the chance of burn shock 1. Decrease wound infections 1. Promote epithelialization 1. Increase the viability of skin flaps and grafts 1. Be effective against carbon monoxide and smoke inhalation injury 1. Reduce fluid requirements of the patient 1. Counteract ischemia in tissue by raising