to transport to the CT scanner or even bedside chest radiography, bedside ultrasound is readily available to physicians. In addition, numerous studies have shown equivalent or often improved sensitivity and specificity of POCUS compared with conventional radiography, namely chest x-rays. Bedside ultrasound (US) may also aid in differentiating between pathologies that conventional radiography may be unable to determine. [1][2] ## Anatomy and Physiology The thoracic anatomy is composed of the chest wall that is made of musculature including intercostal muscles and pectoralis muscles, the sternum, ribs, costal cartilage, the pleura, including the parietal pleura as well as the visceral pleura, and the lungs themselves. The heart and great vessels are located centrally. Important inferior borders of the thoracic cavity are the diaphragm and liver on the right, and spleen on the left. Interestingly, much of thoracic ultrasound relies less on the lung anatomy, and more on the artifacts that are resultant of the ultrasound physics of air-filled structures. Visualization of the lung parenchyma tends to be more indicative of pathology. Under normal conditions, clinicians are unable to differentiate the parietal and visceral pleura, and only the "pleural line" and its associated artifacts secondary to air scatter pattern can be noted. ## Indications Indications for thoracic ultrasound vary. Trauma is a common history, with bedside thoracic ultrasound useful for diagnosis of pneumothorax, hemothorax, rib fractures, pulmonary contusions, and chest wall hematomas, comprising of the extended form of the focused assessment with sonography for trauma (FAST) exam, known as EFAST. Non-traumatic uses for thoracic ultrasound include evaluation for pleural effusions, infectious causes such as pneumonia and empyema, pulmonary edema, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), pulmonary embolism, and ARDS. Symptoms and exam findings that can warrant ultrasonographic evaluation of patients include chest pain, dyspnea, fever, and hypoxia, just to name a few. [3][4][5] ## Contraindications There are no significant contraindications for ultrasonography. Although the demand to transport a patient in need to the operating room in certain situations need not be delayed, the rapid availability of POCUS in most emergency departments, and the limited time needed to complete an evaluation make ultrasound a quick and reasonable mechanism for a rapid assessment before operative management in most cases. ## Equipment Evaluation of the thoracic wall and the pleura are usually evaluated using the 9 to 12 MHz linear-array transducer, allowing more detailed visualization of the more superficial nature of the anatomic structures. In patients