in the case of soft tissue hematoma, a localized, hypoechoic fluid collection subcutaneously. Older hematomas in which clotting has initiated may demonstrate a slightly more hyperechoic and fibrous appearance, similar to the surrounding tissue. Subcutaneous emphysema may also be noted in this view, seen as hyperechoic, vertical lines that may obscure the pleural line, known as E lines or "comet tail" artifacts. E lines result from the difference in acoustic impedance between an object and its surroundings, causing the sound wave to resonate, with lag time between successive reverberations interpreted as distance. Rib fractures, especially early on, may often be missed on routine chest x-rays. Occult rib fractures have been noted in 80% of patients physical examined. X-rays are sensitive but lack specificity. Chest radiography has been estimated to miss half of all rib fractures, and one study noted sensitivities of 15% and 90% for chest radiography and ultrasound respectively. Although CT scanning is more sensitive and specific for rib fractures, minor traumas may not always require such radiation exposure. In addition, rib fractures, with the possible exception of flail chest, rarely requires emergent treatment prior to patient stabilization. In such cases, POCUS is ideal for evaluation. The linear probe is placed over the maximal point of tenderness or pain, and scanned, looking for areas of discontinuity along the anterior rib cortex. Normally, the anterior rib cortex should appear hyperechoic with posterior shadowing obscuring the posterior cortex. Fracture discontinuity is more obvious with displacement, and even occult fractures may be suspected if there is surrounding hematoma present. Of note, sternal and clavicular fractures can also be noted on POCUS with this same technique, although incomplete sternal fusion in children may give false positive results when looking from injuries. Disruptions in the normal visceral-parietal pleural interface via the introduction of air or fluid, are also key uses for thoracic ultrasonography. Under normal conditions, the parietal and visceral pleura are visualized as a single hyperechoic line known as the "pleural line." It is approximately 1 cm distal to the ribs. Acoustic impedance due to the underlying lung produces an echo artifact known as A lines, which are characteristically hyperechoic, regularly spaced horizontal lines below the pleural line. There are also Z lines which are short, broad, ill-defined vertical comet tail artifacts arising from the pleural line but do not extend to the edge of the screen. Lung sliding may also be noted