is known or suspected cardiac disease. The Journal of the American Society of Echocardiography has published appropriate use criteria in 2019, which covers the criteria in its entirety.[8] The use of echocardiography in asymptomatic patients includes screening patients who have first degree relatives with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), aortic aneurysms or dissections, and those athletes that have electrocardiographic (ECG) changes. These patients may not have any immediate complaints, but their strong family history should give the clinician a high pretest probability to order an Echocardiogram. For example, patients with HCM may have a family history of sudden cardiac death in 1st-degree relatives at a young age. Second, the initial evaluation of patients with clinical signs of or symptoms of heart disease. This includes palpitations, syncope, pre-syncope, newly diagnosed bundle branch blocks, arrhythmias, ACS, exertional shortness of breath, and evaluation of pulmonary hypertension. Third, follow-up on previously diagnosed heart failure or valvular disease. In regards to the former, a re-evaluation of the patient's ejection fraction with echocardiography, especially in those with acute heart failure exacerbations, would provide important information to better treat the patient. Finally, the evaluation of patent foramen ovale in those with cerebrovascular accidents (CVA).[8] One of the common causes of CVA is cardioembolic disease. Echocardiography with "bubble study" is a way to evaluate for a patent foramen ovale (PFO). Agitated saline is injected into the heart chambers, and flow across the atrium is evaluated for a defect. This defect may require surgical closure. Bedside echocardiography has many indications in addition to the above listed. Since the early 1990s, bedside echocardiography use by intensivists and emergency medicine physicians has been increasing. Bedside echocardiography is routinely employed in critically ill patients who may or may not have previously diagnosed cardiac disease, but now require vascular support. Bedside echocardiography in the undifferentiated shortness breath can help elucidate cardiac failure vs. pericardial effusion vs. non-cardiac etiology. Some of the most common indications for bedside echocardiography include suspicion for pulmonary embolism, hypotension or respiratory failure of unknown etiology, complications after cardiothoracic surgery, identifications of pericardial effusion, and evaluation of right ventricular dysfunction.[9] The indications for the use of stress echocardiography is the suspicion for coronary artery disease. This includes patients with stable angina with intermediate probability for coronary artery disease, with a pre-test probability of 15% to 85%.[10] This includes Suspected CAD with negative cardiac troponin and/or non-diagnostic ECG. If a patient has unstable