Cushing triad, a combination of hypertension, bradycardia, and irregular or decreased respirations, may be present. Assuming that the patient's airway, breathing, and circulation are intact, the patient should be evaluated using the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS), assessing for eye-opening, verbal responses, and motor responses. The minimum score is 3, and the maximum score is 15. **Glasgow Coma Scale:[28]** Eye-opening response - Spontaneous (4) - To verbal stimuli (3) - To pain (2) - No response (1) Verbal response - Oriented (5) - Confused (4) - Inappropriate words (3) - Incomprehensible speech (2) - No response (1) Motor response - Obeys commands for movement (6) - Purpose movement to painful stimuli (5) - Withdraws to painful stimuli (4) - Flexion response to painful stimuli (decorticate posturing) (3) - Extension response to painful stimuli (decerebrate posturing) (2) - No response (1) Battle sign (bruising behind the ears), raccoon eyes (bruising beneath the eyes), hemotympanum, and CSF otorrhea or rhinorrhea are signs of basilar skull fracture and are highly associated with intracranial hemorrhage.[29] Pupil response is testable in all patients. A fixed, dilated pupil ("blown" pupil) on one side may correspond to ipsilateral hemorrhage and herniation. In patients who can cooperate with the exam, a thorough neurologic exam, including assessment of cranial nerves, strength, sensation, reflexes, and clonus, should follow. Gait testing should be performed in patients not suspected of cervical spine injury, though most patients with a severe head injury will require cervical spine immobilization until cervical injury is clinically and radiologically ruled out. In patients who are following up after brain trauma, further neuropsychiatric testing may be necessary in those persistent symptoms. ## Evaluation Laboratory studies may be indicated in the acute evaluation of patients with TBI. The decision to obtain any laboratory studies will depend on the severity of the injury or associated polytrauma and the medical history of the patient. For example, a simple head injury following a ground-level fall with a resultant head contusion and no other trauma may only require imaging and no labs, whereas a head injury following an MVC in a patient with multiple other traumatic injuries who is also on an anticoagulant will likely need a full lab panel. When clinically indicated, common labs include a CBC, CMP, coagulation profile (PT and PTT), and a type and screen. The initial imaging study of choice is a CT scan of the brain without contrast, as