to increase or decrease with signs of ischemia has prognostic significance. Angina or significant ST depression (greater than 2 mm) before completing stage 2 of the Bruce protocol and/or ST depressions that persist for more than 5 minutes into recovery suggest severe ischemia and high risk for coronary events. Exercise testing will either be positive, negative, equivocal, or uninterpretable if there is a limiting factor such as heart rate. A Duke treadmill score (DTS) is a validated scoring system that can assist with the risk assessment of a patient who has undergone an exercise stress test.[18] The DTS was developed to provide accurate diagnostic and prognostic information for evaluating patients with suspected coronary artery disease. The DTS uses three parameters: exercise time, ST-segment deviation (depression or elevation), and exertional angina to determine if patients are at a low, intermediate, or high risk for ischemic heart disease. The typical range is from +15 to -25. If a patient's score is greater than or equal to 5, they are considered low risk, while those who score less than or equal to -11 are considered high risk. This scoring system predicts 5-year mortality, where low-risk scores have a 5-year survival of 97%, intermediate-risk scores have a 5-year survival of 90%, and high-risk scores indicate a 5-year survival of about 65%. Patients with an intermediate risk assessment should generally be referred for additional risk stratification with an imaging modality.[7][19][20] ## Complications A treadmill stress test is generally considered safe, and its complications are rare. However, the following are the possible complications of a treadmill stress test: - Hypotension can happen during or immediately after exercise, potentially causing the patient to feel dizzy.[21] The problem generally goes away after stopping exercise. - Arrhythmias that occur during treadmill stress testing generally stop soon after the termination of the test. - Although very rare, treadmill stress testing could possibly cause a myocardial infarction. Patients should be instructed not to eat, drink, or smoke for at least three hours before the examination, as this maximizes exercise capacity. The patient should bring comfortable exercise clothing and walking shoes to the testing facility. The healthcare professional performing the test should explain the benefits, risks, and possible complications to the patient before testing. Medications should be discussed with the patient beforehand, as some drugs such as beta-blockers, calcium-channel blockers, digoxin, and anti-arrhythmic medications can affect the maximal heart rate achieved. An