(i.e., WPW syndrome), T wave inversions due to strain pattern or previous injury, conduction abnormalities, and medication-induced ST-T wave changes. If any of these ECG abnormalities are noted, the test should be performed with the addition of an imaging modality. The resting ECG is usually obtained both supine and standing since patient position can influence the QRS and T wave axes. Whether with imaging or without, treadmill stress testing is more helpful in excluding CAD than confirming it.[14] Once it is determined that there are no limiting factors based on baseline ECG, the patient is placed on a treadmill with a designed protocol that increases in intervals as they exercise. Blood pressure and heart rate are monitored throughout exercise, and the patient is monitored for any developing symptoms such as chest pain, shortness of breath, dizziness, or extreme fatigue. The Bruce protocol is the most common one used during treadmill exercise stress testing.[15] This protocol is divided into successive 3-minute stages, each requiring the patient to walk faster and at a steeper grade. The testing protocol could be adjusted to a patient's tolerance, aiming for 6 to 12 minutes of exercise duration. There is a modified Bruce protocol for those who cannot exercise vigorously, adding two lower workload stages to the beginning of the standard Bruce protocol, both of which require less effort than stage 1. There are a number of other protocols for patients with a limited exercise tolerance; however, other methods that do not include exercise are also available for such patients. During the exercise test, data about heart rate, blood pressure, and ECG changes should be obtained at the end of each stage. At any time, an abnormality is detected with cardiac monitoring. Heart rate and systolic blood pressure should rise with each stage of exercise until a peak is achieved. Patients should be questioned about any symptoms they experience during exercise. All patients should be monitored closely during recovery until heart rate and ECG are back to baseline, as arrhythmias and ECG changes can still develop. It is unnecessary to stop exercise at the onset of mild symptoms if no abnormalities are noted on ECG and the patient is hemodynamically stable. The American College of Cardiology (ACC)/American Heart Association (AHA) guidelines have specified indications for the termination of exercise testing. The following are the absolute indications for termination of testing: - A drop in systolic blood