**Absolute Contraindications** - Acute myocardial infarction within 2 to 3 days - Unstable angina not previously stabilized by medical therapy - Uncontrolled cardiac arrhythmias causing symptoms or hemodynamic compromise[10] - Symptomatic severe aortic stenosis[11] - Uncontrolled symptomatic heart failure - An acute pulmonary embolus or pulmonary infarction - Severe pulmonary hypertension - Acute myocarditis or pericarditis, or endocarditis - Acute aortic dissection **Relative Contraindications (can be overlooked if the benefits of treadmill stress testing outweigh the risks)** - High-grade AV blocks - Severe hypertension (systolic greater than 200 mmHg, diastolic greater than 110 mmHg, or both) - Inability to exercise given extreme obesity or other physical/mental impairment[8][12] - Left main coronary stenosis - Moderate stenotic valvular heart disease - Electrolyte abnormalities - Tachyarrhythmias or bradyarrhythmias - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and any other forms of outflow tract obstruction[13] - Mental or physical impairment leading to an inability to exercise adequately ## Preparation Treadmill stress testing is generally safe. Complications are rare, and the frequency of serious adverse cardiac events (i.e., myocardial infarction, sustained ventricular arrhythmia, and death) has been estimated to be approximately 1 in 10,000 patients. All persons conducting the treadmill stress test should be trained to diagnose and manage complications should they arise. Emergency resuscitation equipment and drugs should also be readily available. The patient should be explained about the procedure, and consent should be obtained before the procedure. ## Technique or Treatment Treadmill stress testing is performed in a designated lab, supervised by a trained healthcare provider. Electrodes are placed on the chest and attached to an ECG machine, recording the heart's electrical activity. The resting ECG, heart rate, and blood pressure are obtained prior to starting the exercise regimen. The baseline ECG should be evaluated closely prior to starting the exercise portion of the test. Several baseline ECG changes can obscure the test results, making it difficult for the provider to interpret the results in terms of ischemia. Such baseline changes include ST-segment changes that are greater than or equal to 1 mm, left bundle branch block, ventricular paced rhythm, left ventricular or right ventricular hypertrophy, ventricular pre-excitation (i.e., WPW syndrome), T wave inversions due to strain pattern or previous injury, conduction abnormalities, and medication-induced ST-T wave changes. If any of these ECG abnormalities are noted, the test should be performed with the addition of an imaging modality. The resting ECG is usually obtained both supine and standing