The cell-free fluid then diffuses from a high-pressure system (blood) to a low-pressure system (dialysate). The pressure gradient is achieved by positive pressurization of the blood compartment and negative pressure via suction applied to the dialysate compartment. ## Complications Adverse events associated with UF include clotting of UF filters, transient discomfort at the venous access site, central venous catheter infection, catheter malfunction, hypotension, bleeding events, and renal injury. A very small percentage of patients had volume overload refractory to UF. Early studies suggest that UF is unsafe. A recent systematic review and meta-analysis by Siddiqui et al. concluded that UF is safe and effective in ADHF and that there were no significant adverse events in UF compared to IV diuretics. There were fewer bleeding events with UF than with standard therapy. The increased events of hypotension in UF noted in the studies were clinically insignificant. In addition, the incidence of acute kidney injury in UF and diuretic therapy were comparable. The Cardiorenal Rescue Study in Acute Decompensated Heart Failure (CARRESS-HF) trial by Bart et al. compared the effect of UF with diuretic therapy on renal function in patients with heart failure who have persistent volume overload and renal function that is declining. The study found that, although UF is associated with a higher increase in serum creatine initially, long-term, the serum creatinine is lower when compared to patients on standard diuretic therapy.[12][13][14] ## Clinical Significance UF therapy is a mechanical modality of fluid removal. It reduces central venous pressure (CVP) without impacting circulating volume. This is accomplished by creating a hydrostatic pressure gradient that triggers a mechanical extraction of fluid across a filter which subsequently results in the separation and removal of isotonic plasma water. Studies show that it can be used effectively to reduce volume overload in patients resistant to conventional diuretic therapy. The UNLOAD (UF versus Intravenous Diuretics for Patients Hospitalized for ADHF) trial found that UF is not only an effective alternative therapy for refractory HF but also safely produces greater weight and fluid loss than intravenous diuretics and reduces 90-day HF readmissions and cumulative hospital readmissions. Three recent meta-analyses evaluating the comparative outcomes of UF versus conventional diuretic therapy in reducing volume overload in patients with ADHF found that patients that were able to tolerate UF had a significant reduction in volume overload and weight in comparison to conventional diuretics alone. UF can show great benefits