such as ipratropium bromide-salbutamol. Postoperative care involves monitoring oxygen levels, providing adequate hydration and analgesia, and correctly prescribing the patient's usual asthma medications. For patients with well-controlled asthma, routine mechanical ventilation is generally suitable. However, when airflow obstruction is present, prolonged expiratory phases can pose challenges. To prevent dynamic hyperinflation, also known as auto-PEEP or breath-stacking, clinicians must ensure sufficient time for exhalation during mechanical ventilation. **Anesthesia Agents** When anesthesia providers plan for endotracheal intubation, experts recommend a variety of pharmacological agents for premedication, a primary induction agent, and a neuromuscular-blocking agent. Adjunctive medications for premedications include an opioid-like fentanyl, lidocaine, or the α2-agonist dexmedetomidine. Guidelines suggest different induction agents, including propofol, ketamine, etomidate, isoflurane, and sevoflurane, for patients with asthma undergoing surgery based on their stability and bronchodilatory properties. Induction agents must induce sufficient anesthesia to prevent a physiological response to airway manipulation. Propofol is often the primary agent selected in hemodynamically stable patients. Neuromuscular-blocking agents are the most common cause of intraoperative allergic reactions. As they release the least amount of histamine, vecuronium, rocuronium, and cisatracurium are the neuromuscular-blocking agents of choice for patients with asthma. The volatile anesthetics sevoflurane and isoflurane are viable options for inhaled anesthesia induction and have direct bronchodilatory properties.\*\*\*\* In contrast, desflurane can increase bronchial smooth muscle tone and airway resistance at higher concentrations; therefore, clinicians avoid this in patients with asthma.[15] Although propofol can blunt reflex bronchoconstriction of the airways, its bronchodilation is inferior to volatile anesthetics. However, compared to etomidate and thiopental, propofol has lower airway resistance.[16] Ketamine has direct bronchodilatory effects, blunts airway reflex bronchoconstriction, and is often the agent of choice in hemodynamically unstable patients. However, it also causes increased secretions, which can complicate airway management.[17] Sevoflurane and isoflurane are generally used to maintain anesthesia in patients with asthma. Given their heightened airway responsiveness, children with asthma require a more cautious approach. Anesthesia providers must minimize airway manipulation, use specific anesthetic agents that are less likely to trigger bronchospasm, and often premedicate with bronchodilators to prevent airway issues during induction and emergence. When possible, experts recommend IV induction instead of inhaled induction for children at risk for perioperative respiratory adverse events. Guidelines also recommend cuffed endotracheal tubes and less invasive airway devices such as mask ventilation or a supraglottic airway when possible.[18] Noninvasive airway management, such as supraglottic airway placement, is associated with a decreased risk of postoperative hypoxemia