and personnel should be available as soon as possible. This includes airway supplies for nasotracheal and endotracheal intubation, as well as, surgical airway equipment. Experts in airway management should be sought out as available. These may include anesthesia providers, emergency medicine providers, respiratory therapists, and critical care providers. Surgical consultation for possible surgical airway should be considered before the need for surgical airway arises. Additional equipment that might be of benefit in a difficult airway situation such as a bronchoscope should also be obtained as soon as possible. Supplemental oxygen should be provided to the patient and attempts to reposition the patient, such as a chin lift and jaw thrust maneuver, should be undertaken. Cervical spine precautions should be observed in patients believed to be involved in trauma leading to their airway compromise. Immediate and definitive relief of obstruction may include removal of foreign body, nasotracheal intubation, endotracheal intubation, tracheostomy, or cricothyroidotomy. Additional procedures such as jet insufflation may provide temporary relief. Efforts to treat the underlying cause of the obstruction should also be considered. In cases of infectious etiology, these should be treated with appropriate antibiotics and surgical drainage when indicated. In the case of obstructing masses, these may be worked up after the airway is secured, and proper surgical consultation should be obtained. In more chronic causes such as obstructive sleep apnea, diagnostic studies should be performed, and patients may require intervention while sleeping and possible surgery.[7][8] ## Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis of acute upper airway obstruction: - Aspiration - Infection - Hemorrhage - Angioedema - Iatrogenic (e.g., post-surgical, instrumental) - Blunt trauma - Inhalation injury - Neuromuscular disease The differential diagnosis of chronic airway obstruction: - Infection - Post-intubation - Amyloidosis - Sarcoidosis - Tumor - Collagen vascular disease - Mediastinal mass - Esophageal tumor - Cardiovascular anomaly - Neuromuscular disease - Idiopathic - Tonsillar enlargement in children ## Prognosis The prognosis of airway obstruction depends on the etiology of the condition. Generally, the prognosis of inflammatory and infectious causes is more favorable than that of malignancy. ## Complications The complications of airway obstruction are: - Respiratory failure - Arrhythmias - Cardiac arrest - Death ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Airway obstruction can occur both in the hospital and at home. Thus, all healthcare workers must know how to manage this life-threatening emergency. Because death can occur within minutes, an interprofessional team approach is necessary to