Dieulafoy lesion - Radiation-induced collitis ## Prognosis Limited studies exist regarding the prognosis following GI bleeding. For upper GI bleeds, in-hospital mortality rates are approximately 10% based on observational studies. This rate holds steady up to 1-month post-hospitalization for GI bleed. Long-term follow-up of patients with UGIB shows that at three years after admission mortality rates from all causes approach 37%. Mortality rates were higher in women than in men when adjusted for age, which differs from that of lower GI bleeding. Patients with multiple hospitalizations for GI bleeding carry higher mortality rates. The long-term prognosis was worst in patients who suffered from malignancies and variceal bleeds. The prognosis was worse with advancing age.[15] For lower GI bleeds, all-cause in-hospital mortality is low—less than 4%. Death from LGIB itself is rare, with most in-hospital mortality occurring from other comorbid conditions. Increased risk of death corresponded to increasing age (as seen in cases of UGIB as well), comorbid conditions, and intestinal ischemia. Other negative prognostic factors include secondary bleeding (onset of bleed after being hospitalized for a different condition), patients with pre-existing coagulopathies, hypovolemia, transfusion requirement, and male sex. Not surprisingly, the lowest risks of mortality are associated with more benign causes of LGIB such as hemorrhoids, anal fissures, and colon polyps.[16] Long-term follow-up studies in patients with LGIB are not common. ## Complications Gastrointestinal bleeding if not managed timely or properly can lead to serious consequences. Following complications can occur in a patient with upper or lower gastrointestinal bleeding: - Respiratory Distress - Myocardial Infarction - Infection - Shock - Death ## Consultations Management of gastrointestinal bleeding is teamwork. Following specialties work hand in hand to improve outcomes. - Gastroenterology - Critical care - General surgery - Interventional radiology ## Deterrence and Patient Education _H pylori_ eradication regimen should be started if _H pylori_ is present in case of peptic ulcer disease. Eradication of _H pylori_ has shown to reduce the risk of recurrent ulcer hemorrhages. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) should be avoided and use COX-2 inhibitors which have less risk of ulcer hemorrhage. If it is not possible to avoid NSAIDs, use the lowest dose and duration. Proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs) or misoprostol therapy should be used along with NSAIDs. Increased physical activity prevents the progression of diverticular disease. Aspirin and NSAID increase the risk of diverticulitis diverticular bleeding.[17] ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Care of patients with gastrointestinal bleeding