of a UTI. SIRS (systemic inflammatory response syndrome) signs and symptoms are indicators of sepsis but are no longer required for the formal diagnosis. This includes abnormalities in body temperature (warm skin), heart rate (bounding pulses, tachycardia), respiratory rate, and white blood cell count (elevation or depression). In more severe forms, sepsis is diagnosed when there is evidence of organ dysfunction, including but not limited to kidney dysfunction evidenced by decreased urine output, encephalopathy with an abrupt change in mental status, or a low platelet count. The diagnosis of a complicated UTI in the setting of SIRS includes signs and symptoms (dysuria, flank pain), physical exam findings (costovertebral angle tenderness, evidence of urinary retention), radiologic features, and laboratory results showing bacteriuria and leucocyturia.[12][13] If urosepsis is suspected, the laboratory workup should include a urinalysis with a urine culture. Providers should also order a complete blood cell count, a comprehensive metabolic panel, blood cultures, and a lactate level to look for evidence of end-organ dysfunction. Post-renal obstruction is one of the most common causes of urosepsis. Ultrasound can identify 93% of common contributing causes of urosepsis, such as hydronephrosis or prostate abscess. However, the dependence on an experienced ultrasonographer and their availability often limit the utilization of ultrasound for such patients. Computed tomography (CT) imaging is rapidly available at all hours and is easily reproducible without a need for technologist expertise. This often makes CT scan the diagnostic modality of choice when urosepsis is suspected. It can also identify subtle radiographic findings not easily visualized with ultrasound.[14] ## Treatment / Management Over the last few decades, there has been an increase in multi-drug resistant organisms causing UTIs, making treatment more complicated. This is thought to stem from the overuse of antibiotics to treat suspected UTIs as confirmation is not available for 2 to 3 days until a urine culture with antimicrobial susceptibility has resulted.[15][16] Research aimed at reducing mortality from sepsis via aggressive treatment modalities, including the original Rivers trial, has shown that early goal-directed therapy (EGDT) reduces mortality from sepsis. While some of the original recommendations of EGDT have been challenged recently, these overall treatment guidelines remain: (1) Rapid initiation of empiric antibiotics that are chosen to eliminate the suspected source of infection, (2) Supportive care, including hemodynamic and pulmonary stabilization, and (3) Adjunctive therapies. When choosing antibiotics, the goal is to have these infused into the patient within one