with the colonization of the urethral meatus or vaginal introitus by either uropathogens or fecal flora that ascends via the urethra to the bladder. It may also ascend further up to the kidneys via the ureters and cause pyelonephritis. Pyelonephritis also can be caused by bacterial seeding of the kidneys via the lymphatics.[7][8] While the bacterial pathogen causes the initiation of the disease process, the host response drives and defines sepsis and its severity. The immune response of the host is triggered when the proteins of the microbial pathogen interact with those of the host’s cell membrane. The severe pro-inflammatory response can lead to cell necrosis, an increase in neutrophil production that produces bactericidal substances, and increased permeability of endothelial cells that lead to edema formation. After this initial phase, there is an anti-inflammatory response that leads to immunosuppression in the body where neutrophils become dysfunctional and cause further damage to nearby cells. Other systems in the body affected by this inflammatory response include coagulation, autonomic, and endocrine systems. ## History and Physical Urosepsis can present with a varying spectrum of signs and symptoms, as infection in different parts of the urogenital tract may present differently, as mentioned below: Cystitis presents with dysuria, urinary frequency and urgency, suprapubic pain, and hematuria. Patients may also have a fever or other systemic symptoms (including chills, rigors, or marked fatigue or malaise beyond baseline), which suggest that infection has extended beyond the bladder.[9] Pyelonephritis classically presents with fever, chills, flank pain, costovertebral angle tenderness, and nausea/vomiting. It may also be associated with symptoms of cystitis. Atypical symptoms include pain in the epigastrium or lower abdomen.[10] Acute bacterial prostatitis most commonly presents with fevers, chills, dysuria, pelvic or perineal pain, and noticeably cloudy urine. Obstructive symptoms, such as dribbling of urine, can also occur. On examination, the prostate is often firm, edematous, and markedly tender.[11] Patients may also have recurrent UTIs, a history of renal stones, an immunocompromised state, or a chronic source of infection like an indwelling catheter. ## Evaluation The diagnosis of urosepsis requires both suspicion of sepsis as well as evidence of a UTI. SIRS (systemic inflammatory response syndrome) signs and symptoms are indicators of sepsis but are no longer required for the formal diagnosis. This includes abnormalities in body temperature (warm skin), heart rate (bounding pulses, tachycardia), respiratory rate, and white blood cell count (elevation or depression). In more severe