challenged recently, these overall treatment guidelines remain: (1) Rapid initiation of empiric antibiotics that are chosen to eliminate the suspected source of infection, (2) Supportive care, including hemodynamic and pulmonary stabilization, and (3) Adjunctive therapies. When choosing antibiotics, the goal is to have these infused into the patient within one hour of a confirmed diagnosis, but they should be given only after urine and blood cultures have been collected. Each hour antibiotics are delayed after the initial six hours is associated with an 8% decrease in survival. Local susceptibility patterns guide antibiotic choice but often includes a third-generation cephalosporin, piperacillin in combination with a beta-lactamase inhibitor, or a fluoroquinolone. It is important to remember in dosing these antibiotics that many patients with severe sepsis have end-organ dysfunction, including renal and liver impairment, which might affect the clearance of antibiotics.[2] In addition to early antibiotics, there are other important parts of the management of sepsis. Initial fluid resuscitation with crystalloid is still recommended at a minimum of 30 mL/kg. Consider early administration of vasopressor support to maintain a mean arterial pressure greater than 65 mm Hg. The first choice for vasopressor support in sepsis is norepinephrine (with epinephrine and vasopressin 2 and 3). Tight glucose control is also recommended, with corticosteroids and blood products being more controversial in the literature.[17] If the patient has a complicating factor in the urinary tract that is identified and warrants treatment, it should be performed as soon as possible (e.g., Foley catheter placement to relieve urinary retention or stent placement to bypass an obstructing ureteral calculus causing urosepsis). ## Differential Diagnosis Urosepsis, as mentioned above, includes a spectrum of urogenital tract infections, which may present differently, depending on the region and the extent of infection. It is important to probe the cause of infection, to treat them accordingly. Some of the causes are listed below: - Urinary tract infection - Cystitis - Pyelonephritis - Acute bacterial prostatitis - Prostatic abscess - Renal abscess - Urolithiasis ## Complications Urosepsis is a treatable condition. However, delayed management can lead to severe consequences, including renal failure, septic shock, and death.[18] ## Deterrence and Patient Education Patients with risk factors for UTIs should be encouraged to seek care promptly if they develop symptoms of a UTI. Patients should also be made aware of the importance of adhering to their prescribed medication regimen. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Urosepsis is