stimulus to the return of the next ventricular beat at the same site. Generally, the closer the tachycardia circuit is to the ventricular pacing site, the smaller the PPI−TCL value will be. To distinguish between orthodromic AVRT and AVNRT, a value of less than 115 milliseconds indicates a higher likelihood of AVRT. - AVRT is also likely when the corrected PPI−TCL is under 110 milliseconds; the corrected PPI accounts for the difference between the A-H interval of the last paced beat and the tachycardia A-H interval (ΔAH is subtracted from the PPI). In AVRT, the PPI tends to be shorter due to ventricular involvement in the reentrant circuit. - Notably, quantification criteria for VOP are most predictive when pacing occurs closest to the accessory pathway, for example, at the base of the RV, allowing for significant interval differences. Although a PPI−TCL value less than 115 milliseconds (or a corrected PPI−TCL value less than 110 milliseconds) supports the diagnosis of AVRT, a higher value does not exclude it. This situation can occur in orthodromic AVRT cases where the accessory pathway is located far from the pacing site, such as with left-sided pathways. In these situations, pacing closer to the lateral pathway—either from the LV or a ventricular branch of the coronary sinus—can provide more definitive information. - An additional useful measurement for diagnosing orthodromic AVRT involving a septal pathway is the difference between the V-A interval during ventricular pacing (Stim-A interval) and the corresponding ventricular activation interval during tachycardia, known as ΔVA. A ΔVA value less than 85 milliseconds further supports the diagnosis of AVRT. **His-Synchronous or His-Refractory Premature Ventricular Contraction During SVT** When VOP is not feasible or diagnostic, a His-refractory premature ventricular contraction (HR-PVC) can provide additional information during tachycardia.[10] This procedure involves delivering a ventricular extrastimulus, a PVC, timed to coincide with His bundle refractoriness, either exactly at the time of His recording or within 35 to 55 milliseconds after His depolarization. Confirmation of His refractoriness is achieved by analyzing the surface QRS, which will show a fused beat, representing fusion between a fully paced QRS morphology and the QRS morphology seen during SVT. As a result, any ventriculoatrial conduction occurring after the HR-PVC cannot be mediated through the His-Purkinje system, suggesting the presence of an accessory pathway if the timing of the subsequent atrial beat following the HR-PVC is affected. Three scenarios can arise if the timing