play a key role in the clinical management of viral pneumonia: - Education to promote universal vaccination against measles and varicella - Education to promote appropriate influenza vaccination and post-exposure prophylaxis - Education of prenatal patient's about influenza and varicella immunity - HIV prevention and CD4 count surveillance with appropriate prophylaxis - Education and surveillance of the chronically immunosuppressed, including those receiving chemotherapy, radiation therapy, immunosuppressive drugs ## Pearls and Other Issues 1. The role of viruses in primary pneumonia is increasing, and viral respiratory pathogens are increasingly recognized as a cofactor in bacterial pneumonia secondary to the increasing prevalence of immunosuppression-cancer treatment, organ transplant, and HIV. 1. Prevention, especially in the form of immunization against influenza and measles, can significantly decrease the incidence of viral pneumonia. 1. Increasingly, specific and sensitive real-time diagnostic laboratory tools are available in the form of ELISA and PCR modalities for the specific diagnosis of viral pneumonia and assignment of specific treatment when existent. 1. Although there are no pathognomonic history or physical findings for viral pneumonia as opposed to bacterial pneumonia, there are a number of clinical cues that are quite suggestive. 1. Although specific antiviral agents do exist, the cornerstone of treatment for viral pneumonia remains supportive care. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes An interprofessional team of healthcare workers manages viral pneumonia. While physicians may treat the infection, the role of the nurse and pharmacist are vital for prevention. The patient should be urged to get the annual influenza vaccine, as this can lower the morbidity and mortality. Pharmacists review prescriptions for dose and interactions and educate patients about side effects and the importance of compliance. All patients should be urged to quit smoking and abstain from alcohol. Further, patients should be educated about hand and personal hygiene to prevent transmission of the virus to others. Patients who are immunocompromised should be educated about the symptoms of pneumonia and when to seek medical care. Finally, patients should be urged to lead a healthy lifestyle, eat healthily, and exercise regularly. Close communication between the interprofessional team is essential if one wants to improve outcomes. [16][9] (Level 5) **Outcomes** The outcomes in most healthy people with viral pneumonia are excellent. However, in individuals who are immunocompromised or at extremes of age, the prognosis is guarded. Several adenovirus serotypes are known to cause severe pneumonia leading to bronchiectasis and irreversible atelectasis. It is estimated that