mechanism of penetrating injury. History of the event may be helpful when attempting to narrow the differential diagnosis for penetrating abdominal injury. ## Prognosis The prognostic success of early goal-directed management of abdominal gunshot wounds is of most importance. Still, it is mainly based on the severity and extent of the injury and the time of presentation to the hospital. The usual management of abdominal gunshot wounds involves supportive measures such as hemostasis techniques, blood transfusions, cardiopulmonary support, and surgical attention to injured intraperitoneal structures damaged structures and an attempt to remove foreign objects.[11] Timely surgical intervention may influence mortality and morbidity. Unfortunately, the mortality from abdominal gunshot wounds remains very high. The reason is that the severity of the gunshot wound may vary due to bullet caliber, the trajectory of the object in the body cavity, and energy transfer into the destruction of the penetrating structures. A study was published on trauma patients in Philadelphia who experienced penetrating trauma due to penetrating stab wound or gunshot wounds to analyze mortality rates between 2003 and 2007 of patients entering the Philadelphia hospitals. This study reports that of the 4,122 patients taken to eight Level I and Level II adult trauma centers, 2,961 were transported by EMS and 1,161 by the police, and carried an overall mortality rate was 27.4 percent. In this study, about 77.9% of these victims endured gunshot wounds, and about 22.1% endured wounds due to stabbing. Approximately one-third of patients with gunshot wounds expired, and approximately 7.7% died of complications due to stab wounds.[12] ## Complications - Exsanguination - Inadequate resuscitation - Airway collapse - Peritonitis - Intra-abdominal sepsis - Fistula formation - Wound dehiscence - Hematoma - Scarring - Infection - Death ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care Postoperative care is directed by the injuries identified at the time of operation. Analgesia is a necessary component of postoperative care. Early consideration of enteral nutrition is also important when feasible. Deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis is another consideration in the postoperative abdominal gunshot wound patient. ## Consultations The following consultations are required: - Emergency medicine - General surgery - Trauma surgery - Radiology - Anesthesia - Forensic pathology ## Pearls and Other Issues Mortality rates have substantially decreased in the last two decades as trauma centers have streamlined the approach to diagnosis and management. However, abdominal gunshot wounds are, unfortunately, still extremely common in the US. Healthcare professionals have