artery aneurysm where preservation of the hypogastric artery is necessary, and the anatomy is not suitable for an iliac branch endoprosthesis, open repair may be the most suitable option. This approach allows for reimplanting branches that an endograft would otherwise cover. The choice of a transabdominal or retroperitoneal open approach for an infrarenal aortic aneurysm depends upon the comfort level of the operator; however, access to the right renal artery and right external iliac artery is challenging from a retroperitoneal approach and may be better addressed via a transperitoneal approach. There is an advantage to the retroperitoneal approach for pararenal or suprarenal aneurysms, as the left kidney can be mobilized, improving exposure. Data show that endovascular repair has no long-term differences in outcomes for unruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms compared to open repair. However, data indicate that expansion of the neck of the aorta continues despite endovascular therapy, which can lead to device failure. This is less common when the patient's anatomic measurements are within the selected endograft device's instructions for use (IFU). The most recent 2024 European Society for Vascular Surgery (ESVS) guidelines advise against endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) outside the manufacturer's IFU in the elective setting.[16] Results from a large Vascular Quality Initiative study with 50,411 patients who had undergone EVAR AAA either with or without post-operative beta-blockers (BBs) demonstrated that patients on BBs do not have a reduced incidence of endovascular reinterventions after EVAR and have a higher mortality risk.[21] Open repair has been the gold standard for abdominal aortic aneurysm repair for many decades. This procedure involves a long midline incision followed by replacing the diseased aorta with a graft. Postoperatively, these patients need close monitoring in the intensive care unit for 24 to 48 hours. Due to the less invasive nature of EVAR, this remains the preferred approach when most patients consider it feasible. All patients with small abdominal aortic aneurysms who do not undergo repair need periodic follow-up with an ultrasound every 6 to 12 months to ensure that the aneurysm is not expanding. The size of the AAA dictates the frequency.[22] Traditionally, the anatomic eligibility for endovascular aortic aneurysm repair is based on 3 major anatomic factors—the proximal aortic neck, common iliac arteries, and external iliac arteries. The mentioned index areas characterize the proximal and distal landing zones. A successful endovascular approach is possible if the aortic measurements of these seal zones fit within