pathway. This may include soft tissue structures only but may also include damage to bone, vasculature, and internal organs. A penetrating gunshot abdominal injury can result in the foreign object remaining in soft tissue compartments or finding an exit pathway out of the body. If the projectile enters the body, it is considered a penetrating injury. If there is an exit wound that accompanies the entry wound, this may be considered a perforating abdominal wound. Many abdominal gunshot wounds result in penetrating trauma.[3] A mainstay of care for a potentially penetrating gunshot wound to the abdomen is emergency evaluation and often emergency surgical consultation is required to rule out acute abdomen, prevent exsanguination, and decrease the likelihood of developing peritonitis and sepsis. In addition to the physical exam, an emergency assessment may include a FAST (Focused Assessment with Sonography in Trauma) to rule out hemoperitoneum.[4] Health care professionals may choose to order X-rays and other rapid imaging to quickly identify the location of the foreign object or bullet and plan early goal-directed management. In an emergency setting, many patients with abdominal gunshot wounds may be taken immediately to surgery for diagnostic evaluation and treatment of injuries. ## Epidemiology Firearm-related deaths are the third leading cause of trauma-related deaths in the United States today. In an average week, 645 people lose their lives to firearm violence and 1565 more are treated in an emergency department for a firearm-related injury.[5] Firearm homicide is the second leading cause of injury death among youth 10 to 24 years of age. Firearm suicide is the third leading cause of injury death for persons aged 35 years and older, after drug overdoses and motor vehicle crashes. Overall, firearm injuries are ranked among the 5 leading causes of death for people ages 1 to 64 in the United States.[6] In a study completed from 2010 to 2012, almost half of all firearm deaths in the United States occurred in the South and were lowest in the Northeast region. Internationally, war-inflicted countries have increased the incidence of gunshot abdominal injury due to more firearms being available. Racial disparities in firearm-related homicide and suicide do exist. The homicide rate is 7 fold higher in Black males than any other demographic. Also, it is notable that non-Hispanic whites and non-Hispanic American Indian/Alaskan natives account for the majority of suicides related to firearms. Young adults between the ages of 25 and