Deterrence and Patient Education Many patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms can lead healthy, symptom-free lives. The decision to undergo surgery involves weighing the risk of aneurysmal rupture against the risks and benefits associated with the surgical procedure. Although the size of the aneurysm and its enlargement rate are included in some general guidelines, each treatment decision should be made individually. Clinicians should discuss the surgical risks with their patients so they can make informed decisions. ## Pearls and Other Issues Key insights and recommendations concerning the management of abdominal aortic aneurysms are provided below. - Patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms should quit smoking to reduce the risk of enlargement. - Assessment of medical optimization of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, and other atherosclerotic should be performed. - Moderate exercise does not cause a rupture of abdominal aortic aneurysm expansion.[29] - The SVS guidelines recommend ultrasound screening for all men and women aged 65 or older who have smoked or have a family history of abdominal aortic aneurysm.[30] - Surveillance guidelines for abdominal aortic aneurysm per the SVS using duplex ultrasonography are the following: - 3-year intervals for patients with an abdominal aortic aneurysm diameter ranging between 3.0 and 3.9 cm - 12-month intervals for patients with an abdominal aortic aneurysm diameter ranging from 4.0 to 4.9 cm - 6-month intervals for patients with an abdominal aortic aneurysm diameter ranging between 5.0 and 5.4 cm - Patients with an initial aortic diameter \<3 cm have a low risk of rupture. At this time, there are no recommendations for surveillance; however, it should be noted that gradual expansion has been observed in these patients over time. - Patients presenting with symptomatic abdominal aortic aneurysm should be considered for urgent repair. - Asymptomatic individuals with abdominal aortic aneurysm demonstrating an aortic diameter >5.4 cm or those with the rapid expansion of small abdominal aortic aneurysm should be evaluated for repair. - The objective of abdominal aortic aneurysm repair is to increase survival rates. Consideration of the quality of life after the repair is essential, particularly in those with a shortened life expectancy due to medical comorbidities or cancer. - Endovascular repair may offer fewer complications and a better quality of life in those at high risk for open repair up to 1-year after intervention.[31] The factors that increase the operative risk for abdominal aortic aneurysm repair include severe heart disease, severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,