the available device requirements (IFU). The outcomes are less acceptable if the anatomy does not allow for a good seal. The device is typically oversized at 10% to 20% at the aortic neck. The smallest aortic neck diameter can be treated is 16 mm, and the shortest neck length is 7 mm. Angulation greater than 60 degrees is also a limiting factor for most devices; however, newer devices that address severely angulated neck anatomy, small access vessels, and concomitant iliac artery aneurysmal involvement are now available. Extensive calcium or mural thrombus at proximal or distal seal zones remains an issue for case planning. For aneurysmal disease extending up to or proximal to the renal and visceral arteries, newly approved devices and custom-designed grafts are available, allowing for a broader application of endovascular repair for these complex cases. The endovascular approach might be utilized in managing thoracoabdominal, pararenal, and juxtarenal aneurysms.[23] Fenestrated and branched endovascular aneurysm repair applications in managing aortic aneurysms elucidated obvious advantages, including fewer perioperative complications, specifically significant in high-volume vascular centers. Stent graft selection and the durability characteristics of the stent determine the long-term efficacy of the fenestrated and branched endovascular aneurysm repair procedures. Fenestrated and branched endovascular aneurysm repair procedures are frequently reported together, and the separate effects of the procedures have not been discussed thoroughly. However, the surgeon's preferences mainly affect the selection of a balloon-expandable or self-expandable stent graft.[24] Institutional algorithms for juxtarenal aortic aneurysm repair have addressed the factors affecting decision-making for the fenestrated and branched endovascular aneurysm repair procedures. However, there is a lack of absolute indications or contraindications criteria in the patient selection.[25] Accordingly, high surgical risk and appropriate morphology would greatly affect the decision-making towards the fenestrated endovascular repair. The aneurysm morphology characteristics to be reviewed include the localization of visceral and renal arteries, number of arteries, iliac access, and shaggy aorta.[25] Considering the complications with fenestrated endovascular graft and fenestration stent repair, in-stent stenosis of bare metal renal stents is considered the most common indication for secondary intervention. The low rate of type IA endoleak, sac enlargement, and device migration favors fenestrated endovascular repair in patients with juxtarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms.[26] **Guidelines on Management of abdominal aortic aneurysms** Updated guidelines on the care of patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms were issued by the Society for Vascular Surgery (SVS) in 2018.[17] More recent guidelines were published in 2024 by the