abdominal aortic aneurysm includes mesenteric ischemia, peptic ulcer disease, diverticulitis, pyelonephritis, myocardial infarction, and ureteric colic.[27] ## Prognosis Once an abdominal aortic aneurysm ruptures, the prognosis is grim. More than 50% of patients succumb before they reach the emergency room, and those who do survive have very high morbidity. Predictors of mortality include preoperative cardiac arrest, age older than 80, female sex, massive blood loss, and ongoing transfusion.[28] In a patient with a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm, the one factor determining mortality is the ability to achieve proximal control. For those undergoing elective repair, the prognosis is good to excellent. However, long-term survival depends on other comorbidities such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, heart disease, and peripheral vascular disease. An estimated 70% of patients survive for 5 years after repair. ## Complications The early complications associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm repair include bleeding, limb ischemia, abdominal compartment syndrome, myocardial infarction, pneumonia, ischemic colitis, renal failure, blue toe syndrome, amputation, lymphocele, and death. Close monitoring in the oerioerativve period is important and should include monitoring for arterial perfusion of the extremities, renal function testing, cardiovacular and pulmonary status. One postoperative event which may occur after either the open AAA repair or endovascular repair is ischemic colitis. This is related to interrupted perfusion of the inferior mesenteric artery or hypogastric artery which can occur in either repair although rare in EVAR AAA at less than 1%.[17] The patient may present with a bloody bowel movement or abdominal pain. Supportive measures should be initiated including hydration ad bowel rest. Diagnosis with sigmoidoscopy and if confirmed, antibiotics should be administered. In severe cases, including full-thickness necrosis, colectomy should be performed. Other complications which usually present later include delayed rupture secondary to endoleak, graft infection, bowel obstruction, and impotence. ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care After repair, it is essential that the patient discontinues smoking, eats a healthy diet, and maintains a healthy weight. Physical or occupational therapy may be necessary. Follow-up CT imaging 5 years after open repair management is recommended to exclude late aortic dilation or pseudoaneurysm. ## Consultations Once an abdominal aortic aneurysm is diagnosed, the patient should be referred to a vascular surgeon. Surveillance imaging at 12-month intervals is recommended for patients with an abdominal aortic aneurysm diameter ranging from 4.0 to 4.9 cm.[17] As indicated, cardiology and pulmonary evaluations are recommended to ensure that the patient is fit for surgery. ##