poor renal function, and comorbidities such as stroke, diabetes, hypertension, and advanced age, which can increase the risk of open surgical procedures. If the aortic anatomy permits, these individuals should be considered for endovascular aneurysm stenting. **Infrarenal Aortic Aneurysm Repair** Consideration for repair is appropriate for all symptomatic aneurysms. Aortic anatomy and device availability can dictate the approach. Open aneurysm repair had been the gold standard but carried increased risk and potential complications, which may be acceptable in a younger, good surgical-risk patient. This is still a more durable procedure. Endovascular repair is now an established technique for repairing an abdominal aortic aneurysm. This minimally invasive procedure can also be offered but has better outcomes and durability when the anatomy meets device-specific recommendations. This is the preferred approach in rupture cases and patients with multiple risk factors or a shortened life expectancy. Intervention or surgical treatment risks versus benefits of repair in patients at an increased risk for open surgery should be considered, and no intervention may be appropriate in some cases. Patients should be well-informed regarding their options, risks of repair, and potential postoperative complications. Endovascular repair requires lifelong follow-up with imaging as early or late endoleaks may develop, causing aortic sac pressurization and rupture. Secondary interventions, most of which are minimally invasive, may be necessary. Still, there is a small chance that an open conversation with the stent-graft removal may be required when these secondary endovascular interventions fail. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms are the most common aneurysms of the aorta. Screening ultrasound has helped in the detection of abdominal aortic aneurysms and allows for surveillance in asymptomatic individuals with a diameter of less than 5 cm. In women, the repair should be considered at 5 cm, and in men, at 5.5 cm. If rapid enlargement is demonstrated (>5 mm over 6 months), repair should be considered. Educating healthcare professionals, including first responders, nurse practitioners, triage nurses, primary care clinicians, physician assistants, and emergency department clinicians, can facilitate diagnosis and reduce delays in treatment. An interprofessional team approach involving clinicians including emergency nurses and clinicians, intensivists, radiologists, and vascular surgeons will facilitate rapid evaluation and treatment and improve outcomes. Most patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm initially present to the emergency department with vague abdominal pain or a pulsatile mass. Thus, the triage nurse must be familiar with the presentation of an abdominal aortic aneurysm