34 years have the highest rate of fatal firearm injury and approximately 90% of patients are males. The male age group of 20–24 years old is notably the most affected by firearm injury. Males disproportionately bear the burden of firearm mortality, accounting for 86% of all victims of firearm death. ## Pathophysiology Abdominal gunshot wounds can result in severe traumatic internal injury. This includes multisystem organ injury, hemoperitoneum, and life-threatening internal bleeding. Since bullet trajectory is often unpredictable, penetrating abdominal injury can be potentially catastrophic if there is significant vascular injury. Knowledge of ballistics, the science of the motion of projectiles in flight, may help in determining characteristics of injuries that might be expected from a given gunshot wound. ## History and Physical The history of a penetrating abdominal trauma during the initial presentation of the patient to the emergency department is crucial to providing clues to the pattern of injury. Taking a detailed and thorough history of the patient may guide potential management. Personnel such as paramedics, police officers, or fire rescue who may have arrived at the scene of the injury may be utilized as sources of essential history regarding the etiology of the injury. This is especially important if the patient has altered mental status and is unable to relay the history of the incident. It is beneficial to gather information regarding the events surrounding the injury, including the environment, people involved, allergies, medications, and past medical history of the patient. Information about the caliber of the weapon, the number of shots heard, and any other extenuating circumstances may provide additional valuable information. Additionally, efforts should be made to ensure provider safety by hospital security and law enforcement until the circumstances of the injury are fully understood. Physical exam following the ABCs of trauma is essential. Because the presentation is often not straightforward, the exact diagnosis can be difficult. Besides pain, the patient may present with bleeding per rectum, unstable vital signs, and the presence of peritonitis. The physical exam may reveal wounds, ecchymosis, abdominal distention, absent bowel sounds, and tenderness to palpation. If peritonitis is present, abdominal rigidity, guarding, and rebound tenderness may be present. Early and serial monitoring of vital signs can be helpful to determine shock either at presentation or developing during the evaluation. A comprehensive external exam looking for wounds is an essential part of the evaluation of a patient with an abdominal