cortico-thalamic-cortical circuit is believed to play a significant role in the pathophysiology of absence seizures.[13] Some of the neurons involved in the cortico-thalamic-cortical system include the following: - Cortical glutamatergic neurons originating on cortical layer VI and projecting to the nucleus reticularis of the thalamus - Thalamic relay neurons with excitatory projections to cortical pyramidal neurons - Neurons from the thalamic nucleus reticularis containing inhibitory GABA-ergic projections that connect with other neurons from the same nucleus and with thalamic relay neurons. These neurons do not connect directly with the cortex.[4] Neurons from the thalamic nucleus reticularis can fire in an oscillatory pattern (eg, rhythmic bursts involved in generating sleep spindles) or continuously in single spikes (tonic firing during wakefulness). Shifts between these 2 firing patterns in the thalamic nucleus reticularis are modulated by spikes in thalamocortical networks and neurons from the thalamic nucleus reticularis. These are mediated through low-threshold transient calcium channels known as T-type channels. After depolarization, T-type channels briefly allow calcium inflow before becoming inactivated. Reactivation requires a relatively long hyperpolarization facilitated by GABA-B receptors. Therefore, abnormal oscillatory rhythms can originate from T-type channel abnormality from increased GABA-B activity.[4] As explained by the genetics of absence epilepsy, genes coding for T-type calcium channels and GABA receptors have been associated with the etiopathogenesis of this type of epilepsy. Medications that suppress T-type calcium channels, such as ethosuximide and valproate, are effective anti-absence drugs. Conversely, medications that increase GABA-B activity (eg, vigabatrin) exacerbate the frequency of absence seizures. In contrast, GABA-A agonists (eg, benzodiazepines) that preferentially enhance GABA-ergic activity in neurons from the thalamic nucleus reticularis can suppress absence seizures.[4] More recent research on penicillin-induced models of epilepsy in cats favors the cerebellum's role in long-term electrical stimulation in absence epilepsy.[14] ## History and Physical The age of onset of CAE is usually between 4 and 10 years, with a peak between the ages of 5 and 7.[4] The onset of absence epilepsy before age 4 should raise concern for an underlying glucose transporter type 1 (GLUT1) deficiency.[4] About 10% to 15% of patients with CAE have a history of febrile seizures.[14] Regarding the clinical presentation, family members and teachers usually describe brief spells in which the child has a loss of awareness, is unresponsive, and has a behavioral arrest. Bystanders often describe the patient during these spells as having “a blank stare.”[2] Episodes frequently occur, often 10 to 30