alteration of awareness (previously called complex partial epilepsy) can also present with behavioral arrest and automatisms. However, these seizures are usually less frequent than absence seizures. Patients can have generalized seizures with focal epilepsy. The semiology of automatisms can vary depending on the area of the cerebral cortex where the seizures originate. A study that evaluated nonepileptic staring spells using video-EEG monitoring found that these episodes were often characterized by arrest of all activity, vague facial expressions, and vision fixed on 1 point without blinking. When the duration of the events was quantified, staring episodes lasted between 3 and 74 seconds. In most children, it was difficult to determine the onset and end of the event. Most parents could not regain the child’s attention by waving their hands in front of the child. Other more energetic measures like hand clapping or other loud sounds successfully stopped the events in all children. A significant percentage of children (41%) were inactive at the onset of the stare, and 18% were watching television when the event began.[19] A retrospective chart review performed in a tertiary care epilepsy center showed that among 276 patients in the epilepsy monitoring unit, only 11% were deemed to have seizures.[20] Therefore, most staring spells are nonepileptic in nature. Clinicians should be careful when patients present with staring spells and not tell parents or other providers that these episodes are “absence seizures” before EEG evaluation is completed. The study mentioned above developed a tool to determine the pretest probability of seizures in children presenting with staring spells. This tool accounts for patient variables such as results of previous EEG, previous use of antiseizure medications or treatments for psychiatric conditions, and duration of the spells.[20] ## Prognosis Typical CAE occurs in childhood and resolves by adolescence. Seizure freedom is reported in 57% to 74% of the patients. Compared with controls, the risk for accidental injuries during absence seizures is well-reported.[19] As mentioned before, these patients have problems in the areas of attention, executive function, and verbal and visuospatial memory. Difficulty with language and reading is also commonly reported. Depression, anxiety, and ADHD have also been reported more frequently in patients with CAE.[1] ## Complications Some activities can be dangerous for people with absence seizures because of the temporary loss of awareness accompanying these episodes. Swimming, operating hazardous machinery, and driving during an absence seizure might result in drowning or an