insidious onset and offset, slower spike and wave paroxysms (slower than 3 Hz), and an abnormal interictal background.[4] In JAE, EEG demonstrates paroxysms of generalized 3- to 4-Hertz spike-and-wave or polyspike and wave discharges.[4] Neuropsychological testing has shown that patients with CAE have a higher rate of cognitive deficits, especially involving attention, executive function, and verbal and visuospatial memory. Difficulty with language and reading is also commonly reported. Depression, anxiety, and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder also have been reported more frequently in patients with CAE.[1] In the case of absence status, EEG shows continuous or nearly continuous generalized spike and wave or polyspike and wave discharges at 2 to 4 Hz. In patients with a new diagnosis of absence seizures, brain imaging is indicated to assess for structural abnormalities. ## Treatment / Management The first-line treatment for absence epilepsy is ethosuximide. A randomized controlled trial in 2010 that included 446 children with CAE showed that ethosuximide and valproic acid were superior to lamotrigine.[17] However, this study had a low seizure-free rate, with 53% of patients in the ethosuximide group, 58% in the valproic acid group, and 29% in patients taking lamotrigine. The group that received valproic acid had significantly lower scores on attentional measures compared to the ethosuximide and lamotrigine groups. For this reason, ethosuximide is the preferred agent for treating absence epilepsy. A study showed that only one-quarter of children with absence epilepsy became seizure-free with levetiracetam. If effective, levetiracetam can control absence epilepsy at a relatively low dose (usually \<40 mg/kg/d). Increasing doses are not effective if levetiracetam is not initially effective.[18] The most frequent adverse effects of ethosuximide are abdominal pain and nausea. For this reason, ethosuximide should be taken with meals. Other medications that can be used to manage CAE include valproate, lamotrigine, and topiramate. Second-line medications that can be used as adjunct therapy include valproic acid, zonisamide, and levetiracetam. It is important to note that some sodium channel blockers like phenytoin, carbamazepine, gabapentin, pregabalin, and vigabatrin can worsen absence seizures.[4] Women of childbearing age not using contraception should not be treated with valproic acid; the preferred agent is ethosuximide. Some experts suggest that a ketogenic or a medium-chain triglyceride diet may be beneficial, but strong evidence to support their use is lacking. ## Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis for staring spells includes absence epilepsy, focal seizures with alteration of awareness, and nonepileptic paroxysmal events. Focal epilepsy with