accident. Patients may need to restrict certain activities until their seizures are under control. Some states may also have laws regarding how long a patient must go without a seizure before resuming driving. ## Consultations A general pediatric neurologist or a pediatric epileptologist should be consulted when a patient has staring spells suspected to be seizures. Typically, an outpatient evaluation is a reasonable first step. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Most staring spells are nonepileptic in nature. When patients present with staring spells, clinicians should explain to caregivers that the differential diagnosis includes seizures, but they should avoid giving a specific diagnosis of “absence seizures” before an EEG evaluation is completed. Requesting caregivers to take videos of staring spells can be very useful, as this can help characterize them. Event calendars/logs can assist in understanding the frequency, pattern, and possible triggers. Caregivers of children with CAE should know that generalized tonic-clonic seizures are rare. For this reason, rescue medications such as rectal diazepam and intranasal midazolam are not routinely prescribed. Nevertheless, caregivers should be taught what to do if the child has a generalized tonic-clonic seizure. Caregivers often assume that absence seizures are harmless since they are very brief. Occasionally, they question the need to treat them with medications, arguing that the risks could outweigh the benefits. In these situations, it is recommended to explain that the child is experiencing frequent episodes of altered consciousness that can increase the risk of accidents. Seizures can also interfere with learning and negatively impact school performance. Activities like swimming, diving, or rock climbing should only be permitted under supervision. Driving is not permitted if seizures are uncontrolled and can vary by location. ## Pearls and Other Issues Clinical pearls for absence seizures offer valuable insights for clinicians navigating the complexities of this neurological condition. - Absence epilepsy is classified as a typical or atypical absence, depending on seizure characteristics and EEG patterns. - Absence seizures are characterized by behavioral arrest and EEG showing 3-Hz spike and wave discharges. Episodes usually occur multiple times per day. - Absence seizures are seen in several generalized epilepsies, including childhood absence epilepsy (CAE), juvenile absence epilepsy (JAE), and juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME). - Episodes of behavioral arrest should be called “staring spells” until an EEG evaluation is performed. Patients can only be diagnosed with absence epilepsy if they have characteristic seizure semiology and EEG findings. - Staring