However, there is evidence suggesting that acetaminophen may be deemed safe for use in the context of alcoholic liver disease.[19] Although acetaminophen can traverse the placental barrier, there is no evidence indicating an elevation in teratogenic effects when normal dosages of acetaminophen are used during pregnancy.[20] In addition, acetaminophen is excreted into breast milk, with few observed instances of adverse reactions in nursing infants. Pregnant women are advised to exercise caution when using acetaminophen early in pregnancy due to emerging evidence suggesting that in-utero exposure to acetaminophen may elevate the risk of neurological, reproductive, and urogenital disorders in the fetus.[12] A study by Alemany et al investigated prenatal and postnatal acetaminophen exposure in relation to Autism Spectrum Conditions (ASC) and ADHD.[21] Acetaminophen exposure was assessed in 73,881 mother-child pairs through questionnaires or interviews. Children aged 4 to 12 exhibiting symptoms of ASC or ADHD were evaluated using well-documented instruments. The study found that children prenatally exposed to acetaminophen had an elevated risk of ASC (19%) or ADHD (21%), manifesting as borderline or clinical symptoms. However, postnatal acetaminophen exposure did not show an association with ASC or ADHD symptoms. MacIntyre et al conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover clinical trial to investigate the effects of oral acetaminophen on daytime systolic blood pressure.[22] One hundred and ten subjects were randomized to receive 1 g of acetaminophen 4 times a day or a placebo for 2 weeks, followed by a 2-week washout period before receiving the alternative treatment. Daytime systolic blood pressure was assessed in subjects who received either acetaminophen or a placebo. The investigators observed a 5-mmHg increase in daytime systolic blood pressure among those who received a daily dose of 4 g of acetaminophen. As a result, the researchers concluded that the use of high-dose acetaminophen in hypertensive patients could potentially elevate their risk of cardiovascular disease. ## Toxicity Each year, approximately 500 fatalities and 50,000 emergency department admissions in the United States are linked to acetaminophen.[23] In 2021, US poison control centers recorded over 80,000 cases. Acetaminophen is the most prevalent drug-related cause of acute liver failure, with hepatic injury occurring as a consequence of the drug's metabolism properties.[24] After reaching therapeutic concentrations of oral acetaminophen, 60% to 90% of the drug undergoes metabolism in the liver, forming glucuronic acid- and sulfate-conjugate metabolites. A smaller fraction, approximately 5% to 15%, undergoes metabolism via the cytochrome P450 system (CYP450)—metabolism primarily through CYP2E1