prophylaxis is recommended. Likewise, prophylaxis against stress ulcers is advised for increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding. Glucocorticoids can be administered in patients in whom ARDS has been precipitated by a steroid-responsive process (eg, acute eosinophilic pneumonia) and to those with refractory sepsis or community-acquired pneumonia. Most patients who have persistent or refractory moderate to severe ARDS are relatively early in the disease course (within 14 days of onset with a PaO2/FiO2 ratio \<200 mm Hg) despite initial management with standard therapies, including low tidal volume ventilation, can also be managed with glucocorticoids.[19] However, glucocorticoids are generally avoided in patients with less severe ARDS or those with persistent ARDS beyond 14 days. Moreover, their use is associated with worse outcomes in patients with certain viral infections, including influenza.[20] Central venous catheters may be helpful for frequent blood draws, administration of vasopressors, and measurement of central venous pressure. Care must also be taken to prevent pressure sores. Frequent patient repositioning or turning is recommended when feasible. Skin checks per nursing routine are also advised. Physical therapy should involve exercising the patient when they are weaned from mechanical ventilation and stable to participate in treatment. No role for the routine administration of mucolytics is proven in these patients.[21] ## Differential Diagnosis Differential diagnoses for ARDS include the following: - Cardiogenic edema - Exacerbation of interstitial lung disease - Acute interstitial pneumonia - Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage - Acute eosinophilic lung disease - Organizing pneumonia - Bilateral pneumonia - Pulmonary vasculitis - Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia - Disseminated malignancy ## Prognosis The prognosis for ARDS was abysmal until very recently. There are reports of 30% to 40% mortality up until the 1990s, but over the past 20 years, there has been a significant decrease in the mortality rate, even for severe ARDS. These accomplishments are secondary to a better understanding of and advancements in mechanical ventilation and earlier antibiotic administration and selection. The primary cause of death in patients with ARDS was sepsis or multiorgan failure. While mortality rates are now around 9% to 20%, it is much higher in older patients. ARDS has significant morbidity as these patients remain in the hospital for extended periods and have significant weight loss, poor muscle function, and functional impairment. Hypoxia from the inciting illness also leads to various cognitive changes that may persist for months after discharge. As measured by functional testing, there is an almost near-complete return