team should be consulted. For patients with intracompartmental pressures greater than 30 mmHg or delta pressures less than 30 mmHg, surgical fasciotomy should be done. Acute compartment syndrome is a surgical emergency, so prompt diagnosis and treatment are critical. Once the diagnosis is confirmed, immediate surgical fasciotomy is needed to reduce the intracompartmental pressure. The ideal timeframe for fasciotomy is within six hours of injury, and fasciotomy is not recommended after 36 hours following injury. When tissue pressure remains elevated for that amount of time, irreversible damage may occur, and fasciotomy may not be beneficial in this situation. If necrosis occurs before fasciotomy is performed, there is a high likelihood of infection which may require amputation. If infection occurs, debridement is necessary to prevent systemic spread or other complications. After a fasciotomy is performed and swelling dissipates, a skin graft is commonly used for incision closure. Patients must be closely monitored for complications which include infection, acute renal failure, and rhabdomyolysis. [2][1][27] ## Differential Diagnosis - Deep vein thrombosis - Cellulitis - Gas gangrene - Phlegmasia cerulean dolens - Rhabdomyolysis - Cnidaria envenomation - Peripheral vascular injuries ## Pertinent Studies and Ongoing Trials There are ongoing clinical trials on the treatment of compartment syndrome with ultrafiltration. The study consists of patients with tibial shaft fractures that need surgical correction and are at risk of developing compartment syndrome. It involves the insertion of ultrafiltration catheters in the tissue of the muscle compartment to monitor the biochemical environment inside the tissues of the compartment. The trial also studies that the repetitive insertion of the catheters is safe and does not increase the intercompartmental pressure. The study is being done by the national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases (NIAMS). Previous studies on ultrafiltration as a treatment modality for compartment syndrome have been done but further research on this approach is warranted.[28] ## Prognosis The prognosis after treatment of compartment syndrome depends mainly on how quickly the condition is diagnosed and treated. When fasciotomy is done within 6 hours, there is almost 100% recovery of limb function. After 6 hours, there may be residual nerve damage. Data show that when the fasciotomy is done within 12 hours, only two-thirds of patients have normal limb function. In very delayed cases, the limb may require an amputation. Outcomes for the posterior compartment syndrome of the leg are worse than outcomes for the anterior