if the phrenic nerve is inflamed as it passes through the pericardium.[23][25] When myocarditis is also present, the pain may be less specific, with symptoms of heart failure, such as shortness of breath, potentially accompanying the presentation.[26] Pericardial pain can be distinguished from ischemic pain, which typically worsens with exertion or emotional stress and improves with rest or nitroglycerin. Ischemic pain is generally non-positional, non-pleuritic, and non-reproducible with palpation. However, atypical presentations of ischemic pain are common, making clinical differentiation challenging.[27] Pleuritic chest pain that does not improve with sitting up and is accompanied by respiratory symptoms, such as cough or sputum production, is more likely secondary to pulmonary disease. In contrast, lower chest pain that improves with leaning forward, is non-pleuritic, and occurs alongside food intake should raise suspicion for abdominal conditions, such as esophagitis or acute pancreatitis. ## Evaluation The differential diagnosis for chest pain should include angina due to stable ischemic heart disease or acute coronary syndrome, subendocardial ischemia associated with aortic stenosis or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, aortic dissection, myocarditis, pleurisy secondary to pulmonary embolism or pneumonia, costochondritis, esophageal spasm, peptic ulcer disease, or referred pain from another organ, such as acute cholecystitis. In the acute setting, ruling out life-threatening causes is critical before considering the diagnosis of acute pericarditis, especially in cases of uncertainty.[28] Auscultation typically reveals a left parasternal pericardial friction rub, characterized by a rasping, scratchy triphasic sound that corresponds to friction between the pericardial layers during atrial systole, ventricular systole, and early ventricular diastole. This friction rub is reported to be present at some point during the illness in 35% to 85% of cases.[29] However, it can be challenging to elicit during an examination. The physician should listen to multiple precordial locations in various positions, including the lateral decubitus position at end-expiration, using the diaphragm to enhance the likelihood of detection. Listening to precordial movements more than once is essential, as pericardial friction rubs can appear and disappear intermittently. They may be discernible only at initial presentation or can become louder and more noticeable as an existing pericardial effusion resolves, facilitating friction between the visceral and parietal layers. When present, particularly as a triphasic sound, a pericardial friction rub is highly specific for diagnosing acute pericarditis. However, one component may sometimes be absent, resulting in a biphasic sound. This should not be confused with a pleural rub, which may produce a similar sound but