attempt should be made to avoid the development of multi-organ dysfunction. 1. Renal failure: It may occur due to hypovolemia, acute tubular necrosis or hepatorenal syndrome. Vasopressor therapy with norepinephrine or dopamine is indicated in severe hypotension. Renal-replacement may be considered as a bridge for a possible liver transplant. Continuous renal replacement therapy is preferred to hemodialysis in critically ill patients. 1. Sepsis, including aspiration pneumonia and fever, should be covered with broad-spectrum antibiotics. Surveillance cultures of blood, sputum, and urine should be obtained in all patients with ALF. 1. Metabolic disorders: Hypoglycemia occurs due to impaired glycogen production and gluconeogenesis, and will need continuous infusions of 10% to 20% glucose. Hypophosphatemia occurring due to ATP consumption in the setting of hepatocyte necrosis requires aggressive repletion. Alkalosis in ALF is due to hyperventilation, and acidosis with a pH less than 7.3 portends 95% mortality in acetaminophen overdose if the patient does not undergo a liver transplant. Hypoxemia may occur due to aspiration, acute respiratory distress syndrome, or pulmonary hemorrhage. Patients with encephalopathy greater than grade 2 should undergo endotracheal intubation for airway protection. Seizure-like activity may be treated with phenytoin or benzodiazepines. 1. Cerebral edema: The most common cause of death in ALF is cerebral edema which leads to intracranial hypertension, ischemic brain injury and herniation. Patients with arterial ammonia levels higher than 200 micromoles per liter are at an increased risk for intracranial hypertension. Triggers for cerebral edema include hypoxia, systemic hypotension, decreased cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) and astrocyte swelling which occurs due to increased ammonia levels and glutamine production in the brain. Abnormal pupillary reflexes, muscular rigidity and decerebrate posturing when present indicate the onset of intracranial hypertension. Measures to keep the intracranial pressure (ICP) below 25 mm Hg and CPP above 50 mm Hg, if an ICP monitoring device is placed, should be undertaken. Such measures include elevation of the head of the bed to 30 degrees, avoiding unnecessary stimulation such as suctioning of the oropharynx and background noise, endotracheal intubation, and sedation in a patient with grade 3 encephalopathy and above, prompt initiation of vasopressor therapy and renal replacement therapy, hyperventilation, and intravenous mannitol therapy. 1. Encephalopathy: Encephalopathy is a key feature of ALF. CT of the head should be done in patients with grade 3 encephalopathy and above to assess for intracranial bleeding and cerebral edema. 1. Coagulopathy: Like encephalopathy, coagulopathy is also a defining