temporizing percutaneous drainage of the gallbladder. Milder cases of chronic cholecystitis in patients considered poor surgical candidates might be managed with low-fat and low-spice diets. The results of this treatment vary. Medical treatment of gallstones with ursodiol also has been reported to have occasional success.[12][13][3] ## Differential Diagnosis - Appendicitis - Biliary colic - Cholangitis - Mesenteric ischemia - Gastritis - Peptic ulcer disease ## Complications The complications of acute cholecystitis include: - Biloma - Intraabdominal abscess - Bile duct injury - Hepatic injury - Small bowel injury - Infection - Retained stones in the bile duct - Bleeding ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care Once the gallbladder has been removed, most patients can be discharged on the same day. The pain is minimal and can be managed by over-the-counter analgesics. The patient may complain of severe shoulder pain due to retained CO2 from laparoscopic insufflation and should be explained that such pain will dissipate as the patient moves and gas is slowly absorbed, which can take up to three days. Prior to discharge, the patient should be advised on possible intolerance to greasy food, which may cause bloating or diarrhea. This can be temporary or, at some degree permanent, due to the decreased speed of fat emulsification by the loss of stored bile in the gallbladder. Most patients will have an up-regulation in bile production by the liver and will see improvement in symptoms with time. Follow-up time is between 3-4 weeks from operation. ## Pearls and Other Issues Cholecystitis can occur in the very young and very old, but the highest incidence is in the fourth decade. The classic mantra of "fat, forty, fertile, and flatulent" often applies. Food intolerances are usually the initiating factor of nausea, vomiting, and bloating, but as this condition progresses, there may be persistent symptoms even when the patient has not eaten. The preferred recommended treatment is the removal of the gallbladder. In the past, this was done through an open laparotomy incision. Now laparoscopic cholecystectomy is the procedure of choice. This procedure has low mortality and morbidity, a quick recovery time (usually one week), and good results. At times, patients present to the primary care practitioner with mild symptoms of cholecystitis and gallstones. This can present a challenge to the physician to know what is the appropriate treatment. Often conservative medical management is recommended. This would include low-fat diet modification and possible weight