in the epigastrium associated with nausea and anorexia. The nature of the pain can vary, depending on whether the etiology is a biliary obstruction or a metabolic/toxicologic cause. Biliary etiology is often described as a sharper pain that radiates to the back with a more acute onset. In contrast, metabolic and toxicologic causes like alcohol often have a more sluggish start with dull and generalized pain in the epigastrium. A detailed history regarding alcohol use and medications should be inquired about, keeping in mind that it takes over 5 years of heavy alcohol use to induce alcohol-related pancreatitis. Smoking history is also a significant risk factor for acute pancreatitis. Family history should be reviewed, mainly when more common etiologies appear less likely, as there are rare genetic cases of familial pancreatitis. A physical exam is often significant for fever, tachycardia, and in severe patients, hypotension. The abdominal exam typically reveal epigastric tenderness with possible guarding, rigidity, and decreased bowel sounds. In extreme cases where retroperitoneal bleeding has occurred, the Grey-Turners sign may be present as ecchymosis at the flanks. In contrast, Cullen's sign appears as periumbilical ecchymosis secondary to peritoneal hemorrhage. ## Evaluation According to the Revised Atlanta Classification, the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis requires meeting at least 2 of 3 criteria: 1. A lipase or amylase level is 3 times the normal's upper limit. 1. Abdominal pain is consistent with pancreatitis. 1. Abdominal imaging is consistent with acute pancreatitis. Establishing the underlying etiology of acute pancreatitis includes initial evaluation followed by laboratory evaluation. The critical element of the first assessment of suspected acute pancreatitis involves a detailed history, which includes symptoms of gallstone disease or evidence of gallstone disease on imaging, unexplained weight loss or new onset of diabetes, history of alcohol abuse, medication use, prior surgical procedure or trauma, history of hypertriglyceridemia or hypercalcemia, history of autoimmune disease or family history of recurrent acute pancreatitis. See **Image.** Acute Pancreatitis, Signs and Symptoms. Laboratory evaluation of patients with acute pancreatitis should include routine tests, eg, serum triglyceride, serum calcium, liver biochemical tests, additional genetic testing in patients with strong family history, and imaging studies, including abdominal ultrasound for assessment of choledocholithiasis and bile duct dilatation. A chest radiograph is usually obtained in moderate to severe cases to evaluate for pleural effusions, indicating the higher severity of the disease with higher mortality. In some instances where the diagnosis is equivocal,