Studies** A cardiac troponin test should be the only cardiac marker test ordered. CDC, lipid profile, renal function, and metabolic panel are relevant labs. Cardiac biomarkers are helpful in the diagnosis of AMI, particularly NSTEMI. Troponin, creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB), and LDH are cardiac markers observed. A troponin test is the most specific lab test for early detection of AMI; levels of the troponin isoforms I and T are measured. Troponin levels peak at 12 hours and remain elevated for 7 days. High-sensitivity troponin has been approved for use in the United States after being heavily studied and utilized in Europe. Although it is more sensitive than conventional troponin, it is also less specific. Thus, potential challenges include numerous false-positive interpretations.[3] The level of CK-MB, an isoenzyme of creatine kinase usually found in the myocardium, reaches its peak at 10 hours and normalizes within 2 to 3 days. CK-MB is also not clinically utilized due to its low specificity, rapid rise, and normalization. LDH levels reach their peak after 72 hours and return to normal within 10 to 14 days. In clinical practice, LDH is not used to diagnose acute MI. B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) should not be ordered as a marker for MI; instead, it is more valuable for risk stratification, particularly in patients with MI who subsequently develop heart failure. **Cardiac Imaging** Cardiac angiography is used to perform the percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) procedure or determine obstructions in the coronary vessels. An echocardiogram is used to assess wall motion, degree of valve abnormality, ischemic mitral regurgitation, and presence of cardiac tamponade. ## Treatment / Management All patients with STEMI and NSTEMI require immediate administration of nonenteric-coated, chewable aspirin with a loading dose of 162 mg to 325 mg.[12] Additionally, patients should have intravenous access established, and oxygen supplementation should be administered if their oxygen saturation falls below 91%. Opioids may be used for pain control in addition to sublingual nitroglycerin if the patient's blood pressure is within an acceptable range.[13][14][15] The primary treatment approach for STEMI involves immediate reperfusion. The preferred method is emergent PCI. Before PCI, patients should receive dual antiplatelet therapy, which includes intravenous heparin infusion and an adenosine diphosphate inhibitor receptor (P2Y12 inhibitor), most commonly ticagrelor. A glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor or direct thrombin inhibitor may also be administered during the PCI procedure. If PCI is unavailable within 90 minutes of diagnosing STEMI, reperfusion using an intravenous