Local complications of acute pancreatitis include early (less than 4 weeks, peripancreatic fluid collection, and pancreatic/peripancreatic necrosis) and late (more than 4 weeks, pancreatic pseudocyst, and walled-off necrosis). Usually, acute peripancreatic fluid collection resolves spontaneously in most cases, and only less than 10% results in pancreatic pseudocyst. Most pseudocysts decide to do observation alone with periodic follow-up using CT or MRI (see **Image.** Necrotising Pancreatitis With Extensive Peripancreatic Nodularity). Drainage of these pseudocysts is only recommended in case of infection and rapid enlargement. The drainage modalities include endoscopic (transmural or transpupillary) or percutaneous, the endoscopic approach being the preferred modality. Necrotic collection management remains challenging. The sterile collection is intervened if it causes symptoms such as persistent abdominal pain, vomiting, nausea, gastric outlet or bowel obstruction, and disrupted pancreatic duct. One-third of this necrosis becomes infected. Infection results in clinical deterioration, lengthened recovery, and high mortality. Antibiotics are initiated on the earliest suspicion, and the preferred antibiotic regimen includes a carbapenem alone or a combination of quinolone, cefepime, or ceftazidime with metronidazole. Gas bubbles diagnose infected necrosis on imaging and CT-guided percutaneous aspiration culture. A surgical necrosectomy is performed in patients who continue to deteriorate clinically despite antibiotics. In stable patients, antibiotics are continued for 4 to 6 weeks, and a necrosectomy is performed after the wall matures. The initial approach includes less invasive modalities, which include endoscopic and percutaneous drainage, and surgical debridement is reserved in unsuccessful cases.[28][29] ## Differential Diagnosis The overall differential for abdominal pain constitutes the differential for acute pancreatitis. It can be significantly narrowed down to a specific diagnosis with a good history and physical examination described above. Differential diagnoses for acute pancreatitis include but are not limited to the following: - Peptic ulcer disease - Cholangitis - Cholecystitis - Bowel obstruction - Bowel perforation - Mesenteric ischemia - Acute hepatitis - Diabetic ketoacidosis - Basilar pneumonia - Myocardial infarction - Aortic dissection - Renal colic In many cases of abdominal pain, a lipase level 3 times the upper limit of normal allows for the diagnosis of pancreatitis as the source of abdominal pain due to its high specificity. An abdominal ultrasound helps to differentiate cholecystitis, whereas high suspicion of mesenteric ischemia warrants a CT angiogram. In high-risk patients, the cardiac source should be concurrently ruled out as it can present atypical epigastric pain. Though the pain of a progressing aortic dissection is more severe