catheter measurements or noninvasive techniques such as cardiac echocardiography, thoracic bioimpedance, or pulse contour analysis. However, using pulmonary artery catheters is controversial and generally discouraged, with a preference for noninvasive methods. Bronchoscopy may be required to assess pulmonary infections and obtain material for culture.[2] Further laboratory and radiographic tests are guided by the underlying cause of the inflammatory process leading to ARDS. Patients with ARDS often develop or have concurrent multi-organ failure, affecting renal, hepatic, and hematopoietic systems. Regular testing, including complete blood count with differential, comprehensive metabolic panel, serum magnesium, serum ionized calcium, phosphorus levels, blood lactate level, coagulation panel, troponin, cardiac enzymes, and CKMB, is recommended as clinically indicated.[10][11][12] ## Treatment / Management The chief treatment strategy is supportive care, focusing on 1) reducing shunt fraction, 2) increasing oxygen delivery, 3) decreasing oxygen consumption, and 4) avoiding further injury. Patients are mechanically ventilated, guarded against fluid overload with diuretics, and given nutritional support until improvement is observed. Interestingly, the mode in which a patient is ventilated affects lung recovery. Evidence suggests that some ventilatory strategies can exacerbate alveolar damage and perpetuate lung injury in the context of ARDS. Care is placed on preventing volutrauma (exposure to large tidal volumes), barotrauma (exposure to high plateau pressures), and atelectrauma (exposure to atelectasis).[1][13] A lung-protective ventilatory strategy is advocated to reduce lung injury. The NIH-NHLBI ARDS Clinical Network Mechanical Ventilation Protocol (ARDSnet) sets the following goals: tidal volume (TV) from 4 to 8 mL/kg of ideal body weight (IBW), respiratory rate (RR) up to 35 bpm, SpO2 88% to 95%, plateau pressure (Pp) less than 30 cm H2O, pH goal 7.30 to 7.45, and inspiratory-to-expiratory time ratio less than 1. To maintain oxygenation, ARDSnet recognizes the benefit of PEEP. The protocol allows for a low or a high PEEP strategy relative to FiO2. Either strategy tolerates a PEEP of up to 24 cm H2O in patients requiring 100% FiO2. The inspiratory-to-expiratory time ratio goal may need to be sacrificed, and an inverse inspiratory-to-expiratory time ratio strategy may need to be instituted to improve oxygenation in particular clinical situations. Novel invasive ventilation strategies have been developed to improve oxygenation. These include airway pressure release ventilation (APRV) and high-frequency oscillation ventilation (children). Recruitment maneuvers and APRV have not been shown to improve mortality but may improve oxygenation. Patients with mild and some with moderate ARDS may benefit from non-invasive ventilation to avoid endotracheal