intubation and invasive mechanical ventilation. These modalities include continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), bi-level airway pressure (BiPAP), proportional-assist ventilation, and a high-flow nasal cannula. Adequate care should be taken to intubate and mechanically ventilate these patients if they get worse on the above non-invasive ventilation. Several strategies can be employed to reduce the risk of barotrauma in ARDS management to achieve Pp less than 30 cm H2O. One effective approach involves maintaining TV and minimizing PEEP as much as possible. Additionally, increasing the rise or inspiration time can aid in meeting the Pp target. Decreasing the flow rate can also serve as a supplementary method to lower Pp. Improving lung compliance will improve Pp and oxygenation goal attainment. Neuromuscular blockade has been used as an aid to improving compliance. Neuromuscular blockers instituted during the first 48 hours of ARDS improved 90-day survival and increased time off the ventilator.[13] However, the most recent trial published in 2019 showed no significant difference in mortality with continuous infusion of people with paralysis compared to lighter sedation goals.[14] Other causes of decreased lung compliance should be sought and addressed. These include but are not limited to pneumothorax, hemothorax, thoracic compartment syndrome, and intraabdominal hypertension. Prone position has shown benefits in about 50% to 70% of patients. The improvement in oxygenation is rapid and allows a reduction in FiO2 and PEEP. The prone position is safe, but there is a risk of dislodgement of lines and tubes. The prone position is believed to facilitate the recruitment of dependent lung zones, improve diaphragmatic excursion, and increase functional residual capacity. The patient must be prone for at least 8 hours a day to derive the benefits. Nonventilatory strategies have included prone positioning and conservative fluid management once resuscitation has been achieved.[15][16] Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) has recently been advocated as salvage therapy in refractory hypoxemic ARDS.[17] However, two major trials that compared venovenous ECMO to standard care showed no difference in mortality between the two groups.[18] Nutritional support via enteral feeding is recommended. A high-fat, low-carbohydrate diet containing gamma-linolenic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid has been shown in some studies to improve oxygenation. A moderately permissive hyperglycemic strategy, blood glucose 140 to 180 mg/dL, is recommended for most hyperglycemic critically ill patients, rather than intensive insulin therapy targeting blood glucose 80 to 110 mg/dL. Critically ill patients are more prone to deep venous thrombosis, so some form of