the hospital, and an additional 40% to 50% do not survive upon arrival. Furthermore, another 5% to 10% of patients will experience mortality within the first 12 months after an MI. The prognosis of AMI depends on the extent of muscle damage. Better outcomes are seen in patients who undergo early perfusion, including thrombolytic therapy within 30 minutes of arrival or PCI within 90 minutes. Patients with preserved ejection fraction have better outcomes than those with reduced ejection fraction. Medical management following an AMI is crucial for improving long-term outcomes. Initiating medications, such as aspirin, beta-blockers, and ACE inhibitors, is standard practice to help prevent recurrent cardiovascular events. Factors that negatively affect prognosis include the following: - Diabetes - Advanced age - Prior MI, peripheral vascular disease, or stroke - Delayed reperfusion - Diminished ejection fraction (the strongest predictor) - Presence of congestive heart failure - Elevated C-reactive protein and BNP levels - Depression A high readmission rate affects about 50% of patients within the first 12 months after the initial MI. The overall prognosis depends on factors such as the ejection fraction, age, and comorbidities. Patients who do not undergo revascularization procedures have poorer outcomes than those who undergo revascularization. The most favorable prognosis is observed in patients with early and successful reperfusion and preserved left ventricular function.[16][17][18] ## Complications Primary complications of AMI include the following: - New-onset mitral regurgitation - Ventricular septal rupture - Left ventricular aneurysm - Arrhythmias - Emboli ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care Cardiac rehabilitation plays a vital role in the recovery of patients following an AMI. Research has demonstrated the numerous benefits of cardiac rehabilitation, including improvements in quality of life, reduction of disability, and a decrease in mortality rates.[19][20] The rehabilitation process should be individualized to meet each patient's specific needs, available resources, established goals, and physical abilities before and after the MI event. Collaboration among rehabilitation therapists and the rest of the interprofessional care team is vital for continuity of care.[19][21] Cardiac rehabilitation has also been shown to reduce future risk factors for individuals following an AMI. Annual follow-up results demonstrate that cardiac rehab can reduce the risk of future cardiovascular events.[22] ## Deterrence and Patient Education For individuals experiencing symptoms of a possible AMI, the following actions are recommended: - Seek immediate medical attention if symptoms suggest an MI, such as chest pain or discomfort, shortness of breath, nausea, or