loss. Unfortunately, for surgeons, these patients often present to the emergency department with symptoms of acute cholecystitis and undergo urgent surgery. This situation also increases operative morbidity rates. Therefore, general surgeons usually recommend patients undergo elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy earlier than later in the course of the disease. Other considerations would be the passing of gallstones into the bile duct causing biliary obstruction and possible pancreatitis. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Managing acute cholecystitis is now routine, and most patients have an excellent prognosis. However, problems arise in patients with acalculous cholecystitis and when there are bile duct stones. Patients with acalculous cholecystitis are often managed in the intensive care unit and may undergo an initial aspiration procedure until they are fit to undergo formal surgery. Since many of these patients have high comorbidity, monitoring them is critical. Educating the patient and family is vital since the condition does carry a high mortality. The other group of patients who may have a prolonged stay are those with a bile duct stone. These patients require an ERCP prior to cholecystectomy. Again ERCP is not a benign procedure, and patients need to be educated about the procedure and potential complications. Patients with numerous comorbid factors need to be evaluated by the cardiologist prior to general anesthesia. The preoperative nurse should ensure that the patient has the requisite clearance, ECG, chest x-ray, and blood work before the surgery. If there are any deficiencies or concerns, the surgeon should be contacted prior to the procedure.[14][15][16] (Level V) After the procedure, the nurse will monitor vital signs and assist in managing the patient's pain. If there is any significant change in vital signs or the pain cannot be controlled with the medications provided, the surgeon should be consulted. Pre-operatively, the pharmacist should access the patient's medications and make sure that there is no concern for withdrawal or potential interaction with the anesthetics. The clinical team should be apprised if there are any concerns. **Outcomes** For patients with uncomplicated acute cholecystitis, the prognosis is excellent. The mortality rates are very low. Perforation or gangrene of the gallbladder may occur in delayed cases. Patients with acalculous cholecystitis have high mortality varying from 20-50%. In severe cases of acute cholecystitis, the intense inflammation can make surgery difficult, resulting in injury to the bile duct, which has substantial morbidity.[17][18] [Level 5] ## Review Questions - [Access free multiple choice questions