Retrievable filters are preferred, such that after the contraindication has resolved, the filter can be removed, and patients should be anticoagulated. This is because the Prevention of Recurrent Pulmonary Embolism by Vena Cava Interruption (PREPIC) study showed that the insertion of a permanent vena cava filter was associated with a significant reduction in the risk of recurrent PE and a substantial increase in the risk of DVT, without a remarkable difference in the risk of recurrent VTE or death.[78] **Long-Term Treatment and Prevention of Recurrence** The aim of anticoagulation after the acute management of PE is to complete the treatment of the acute episode and prevent the recurrence of VTE over the long term. Clinical trials have assessed various durations of anticoagulant therapy with VKAs for VTE.[79][80][81] The findings of these studies established a treatment protocol for acute PE. First, all patients with PE should receive 3 months or more of anticoagulant treatment. Second, after the anticoagulant treatment is stopped, the risk of recurrence is expected to be similar if anticoagulants are stopped after 3 to 6 months compared with more prolonged treatment periods (eg, 12 to 24 months). Third, extended oral anticoagulant treatment reduces the risk of recurrent VTE by ≤90%, but the risk of bleeding partially offsets this benefit. Oral anticoagulants are highly efficient in preventing recurrent VTE at the time of treatment, but after the discontinuation of treatment, they do not eliminate the risk of subsequent recurrence.[79] Notably, about 30% of PEs are unprovoked. Unprovoked PE (ie, PE in the absence of an identifiable risk factor) is associated with a 2- to 3-fold increase in the risk of recurrence compared to patients who had a provoked PE.[82] Patients with persistent risk factors (eg, cancer or elevated antiphospholipid antibodies) have a higher rate of recurrence than those with transient risk factors (eg, immobilization, surgery, or trauma).[83] Consequently, the optimal duration of anticoagulation remains uncertain and should be individualized. A minimum of 3 months is usually recommended, but a more extended period is required if the PE was unprovoked or persistent risk factors are evident.[82] This need for longer anticoagulation should be assessed at the end of 3 months by considering the patient's bleeding risk. Those with a high bleeding risk can limit therapy to 3 months. Special considerations are required for patients with active cancer, given their increased risk for a VTE event. Hence, cancer patients should receive