and themselves.[39] ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Interprofessional and multidisciplinary teamwork is necessary to promptly identify and treat patients with acute stroke and provide effective care throughout the recovery and rehabilitation process. Guidelines for ischemic stroke, ICH, and SAH recommend the importance of interprofessional healthcare teams in prehospital and hospital settings to enhance outcomes. Moreover, rehabilitation services provided by a multidisciplinary team during and after hospitalization are essential in facilitating functional recovery in patients and promoting patient independence for individuals who have experienced an acute stroke.[70][79] The prehospital team usually comprises the Emergency Medical Services and paramedic personnel, with support from the emergency department (ED) clinicians. During the hyperacute phase (first 72 hours post-stroke), essential team members comprise a stroke clinician, a stroke specialist nurse collaborating with ED personnel, and an imaging team led by a radiologist or neuroradiologist.[80] Pharmacists play a crucial role in interprofessional critical care for stroke patients by providing invaluable expertise in recommending appropriate thrombolytic therapy. Their unique position allows them to assess the safety and appropriateness of these medications for individual patients, ensuring accurate dosing and safe preparation. Pharmacists also contribute to medication reconciliation by adequately managing the patient's medications throughout treatment. They also offer vital counseling to patients by guiding them throughout their treatment regimen. When alerted by a Code: Stroke call, a stroke clinician and specialist nurse commonly attend the ED. Stroke survivors should be directly admitted from the ED to specialized stroke inpatient units to enhance outcomes. This practice reduces mortality rates and promotes increased patient independence during the inpatient stay.[80] Due to its proven benefits, initiating rehabilitation as early as possible following a stroke is recommended.[70][80] Inpatient teams commonly comprise stroke clinicians, nurses, speech and language therapists, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, and assistants.[80] Early rehabilitation enhances health outcomes, promotes patient confidence, and improves self-care abilities.[79] Stroke coordinators are valuable interprofessional team members, collaborating with the broader stroke team, stroke survivors, and their families throughout the entire hospitalization period, from admission to discharge. In addition to their role in the team, stroke coordinators may contribute to secondary stroke prevention education by working alongside other team members to provide crucial information and support.[80] Early supported discharge (ESD) for stroke refers to an interprofessional team intervention designed to enable timely hospital discharge and the provision of stroke-specialized rehabilitation in the patient's home. Internationally, stroke care guidelines recommend ESD services, which initiate treatment within 24 hours