cholesterol and lipids, disruption in the concentration process, and cholesterol crystal nucleation. When cystic duct blockage is caused by a stone, it is called acute calculous cholecystitis. It is important to know, one can have pain due to temporary obstruction by gallstones, and that is called biliary colic. The diagnosis of biliary colic is upgraded to acute calculous cholecystitis if the pain does not resolve in six hours. If no stone is identified, it is called acute acalculous cholecystitis.[4][5] Regardless of the cause of the blockage, the gallbladder wall edema will eventually cause wall ischemia and become gangrenous. The gangrenous gallbladder can become infected by gas-forming organisms, causing acute emphysematous cholecystitis; all of these conditions can quickly become life-threatening, and rupture has a high rate of mortality. About 95% of people with acute cholecystitis have gallstones. [6] However that does not mean incidental findings of gallstone should be treated, as it is estimated that only 20% of patients with asymptomatic stones will develop symptoms within 20 years[7], and because approximately 1% of patients with asymptomatic stones develop complications of their stones before the onset of symptoms, prophylactic cholecystectomy is not warranted in asymptomatic patients. ## Epidemiology Gallbladder disease occurs in men and women, with certain populations being more prone to it. The risk of gallbladder disease increases in women, obese patients, pregnant women, and patients in their 40s. Drastic weight loss or acute illnesses may also increase the risk. The formation of gallstones and this condition can run in families. Other conditions that cause the breakdown of blood cells, for example, sickle cell disease, also increase the incidence of gallstones. ## Pathophysiology Occlusion of the cystic duct or malfunction of the mechanics of gallbladder emptying is the pathophysiology of this disease. Cases of acute untreated cholecystitis could lead to perforation of the gallbladder, sepsis, and death. Gallstones form from various materials such as bilirubinate or cholesterol. These materials increase the likelihood of cholecystitis and cholelithiasis in conditions such as sickle cell disease where red blood cells are broken down forming excess bilirubin and forming pigmented stones. Patients with excessive calcium such as in hyperparathyroidism can form calcium stones. Patients with excessive cholesterol can form cholesterol stones. Occlusion of the common bile duct such as in neoplasms or strictures can also lead to stasis of the bile flow causing gallstone formation.[8][9] ## Histopathology During the early phase, the gallbladder will usually