dysfunction syndrome (MODS). Revised Atlanta Criteria defines the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis, which states that acute pancreatitis requires at least 2 of the following 3 criteria: 1) lipase or amylase levels 3 times the upper limit of normal, 2) physical exam consistent with pancreatitis, and 3) imaging (CT, MRI, ultrasound) findings that are consistent with acute pancreatitis. The Bedside Index Severity in Acute Pancreatitis (BISAP) score can aid in triaging patients for the level of care. This index has good predictive performance for both severe acute pancreatitis and mortality and has been validated prospectively, and it is simple and easy to calculate from initial presentation data. The essential stage of management of acute pancreatitis is the first 12 to 24 hours of admission. During this time, appropriate fluid resuscitation can significantly reduce complications and mortality. Close observation of vitals and basic labs are essential to ensure adequate fluid resuscitation. The incidence of idiopathic pancreatitis remains as high as 10 to 20% of acute pancreatitis cases and causes a particular diagnostic and management dilemma. Recent studies continue to address the best use of EUS and ERCP in evaluating these cases with a more tempered approach to ERCP due to its relatively high rate of inducing post-procedural pancreatitis. A recent randomized control trial (RCT), published in The New English journal of Medicine, was conducted at 18 centers in which patients diagnosed with acute pancreatitis were randomly assigned to either goal-directed aggressive or moderate fluid resuscitation with lactated ringers solution. The trial concluded with the development of a higher incidence of fluid overload in patients who received aggressive fluid resuscitation without improvement in clinical outcomes. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Acute pancreatitis is a severe disorder. The most effective way to manage the condition is with an interprofessional team of healthcare professionals, including a surgeon, radiologist, endocrinologist, pulmonologist, intensivist, gastroenterologist, pharmacist, nurse, and addiction specialist. The 3 major causes of acute pancreatitis are gallstones, alcohol, and medications. The emphasis should be on prevention. The nurse and pharmacist are in the prime position to educate the patient on lowering their risks of acute pancreatitis by abstaining from alcohol, losing weight, eating a low-fat diet, and reducing their lipid profile. In addition, the pharmacist can re-evaluate all the medications and recommend discontinuing those associated with pancreatitis.[36][37][38] It is incumbent on all team members to exercise open communication with the rest of the team and to