due to increased metabolic syndrome and hypertriglyceridemia. Multiple reports are showing an increase in acute pancreatitis secondary to hypertriglyceridemia. The mortality rate is decreasing in the United States despite the increased incidence, with an approximately 2% mortality rate cited by most recent studies. The peak incidence of acute pancreatitis is in the fifth and sixth decades; however, there is an increase in mortality with age. It is thought that the difference in incidence is due to geographic region and socio-economic strata. It is most likely due to differences in the use of alcohol and the occurrence of biliary calculi, which are the 2 major causes of acute pancreatitis. In the United States, population incidence has been cited as 600 to 700 per 100,000 people, with 200,000 to 250,000 discharges occurring yearly for acute pancreatitis.[9][10] ## Pathophysiology The localized destruction characterizes the pathophysiology of pancreatitis in the pancreas and systemic inflammatory response. The major inciting event is the premature activation of the enzyme trypsinogen to trypsin within the acinar cell instead of the duct lumen. The leading cause is an elevation in ductal pressures (such as duct obstruction) and problems with calcium homeostasis and pH. Many toxins responsible for causing pancreatitis cause ATP depletion, increasing the intra-acinar calcium concentrations that may stimulate the early activation of trypsinogen to trypsin, activating enzymes such as elastase and phospholipases. This premature activation of these zymogens causes extensive tissue damage and Damage Associated Molecular Patterns (DAMPs) release. This release of DAMPs is associated with recruiting neutrophils and initiating the inflammatory cascade. This inflammatory cascade then leads to the systemic manifestations of acute pancreatitis. It ultimately produces capillary permeability and endothelium damage with microvascular thrombosis that gives rise to multi-organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) as the main cause of morbidity and mortality in the setting of acute pancreatitis. Some individuals also have a genetic predisposition for pancreatitis and suffer from recurrent acute pancreatitis, progressing to chronic pancreatitis. Not surprisingly, the associated genes are involved in activating trypsinogen to trypsin. Many genes play a role in recurrent pancreatitis, eg, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (_CFTR_) gene, cationic trypsinogen gene (_PRSS1_) gain of function mutations, mutations of trypsin degrading enzyme (CTCR) chymotrypsin C and (SPINK1) pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor. Furthermore, they are also involved in the increasingly acknowledged spectrum of diseases, from acute to chronic pancreatitis.[3][11][12] ## History and Physical The patient commonly describes moderate to severe abdominal pain