assessing for any signs of heart failure or circulatory compromise. Patients should be asked about the characteristics of the pain and associated symptoms, risk factors or history of cardiovascular disease, and recent drug use.[13] STEMI risk factors include age, gender, family history of premature coronary artery disease, tobacco use, dyslipidemia, diabetes, hypertension, abdominal obesity, sedentary lifestyle, a diet low in fruits and vegetables, and psychosocial stressors.[14] Cocaine use can cause STEMI regardless of risk factors.[15] Obtaining a history of known congenital abnormalities can be useful during evaluation.[16] Familial hypercholesterolemia is linked to an increased risk of early-onset atherosclerotic disease. In patients hospitalized with acute myocardial infarction, familial hypercholesterolemia correlates with a higher incidence of both STEMI and NSTEMI, fewer cases of type 2 myocardial infarction, and Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, and a greater need for multiple stents, coronary bypass surgery, and mechanical circulatory support devices.[17] ## Evaluation **Electrocardiogram** The resting 12-lead ECG is the primary diagnostic tool for evaluating patients with suspected ACS. An ECG should be performed immediately upon first medical contact and interpreted by a qualified emergency medical technician or physician within 10 minutes. Repeat ECGs may be necessary, mainly if symptoms have subsided during first medical contact. Patients with suspected ACS are typically categorized into 2 main diagnostic groups based on the initial ECG findings.[18] Patients with acute chest pain or equivalent symptoms and persistent ST-segment elevation or its ECG equivalents are given a working diagnosis of STEMI. Most of these patients experience myocardial necrosis and elevated troponin levels, meeting the criteria for myocardial infarction, although not all will have a final diagnosis of STEMI. Patients with acute chest pain or equivalent symptoms without persistent ST-segment elevation or its ECG equivalents are categorized under non–ST-elevation ACS (NSTE-ACS). **Guidelines from the American Heart Association, American College of Cardiology, European Society of Cardiology, and World Heart Federation** Evaluating patients with acute onset of chest pain should begin with an ECG and troponin levels. The American College of Cardiology (ACC), American Heart Association (AHA), ESC, and the World Heart Federation (WHF) committee established the following ECG criteria for STEMI: - New ST-segment elevation occurs at the J point in 2 contiguous leads, with a threshold greater than 0.1 mV in all leads except V2 and V3. - In leads V2 and V3, the threshold is greater than 0.2 mV for men older than 40, greater than 0.25 mV for men under 40,