were reported across the 57 member countries of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) in 2019. The median age-standardized incidence rate was 293.3 per 100,000 people, with an interquartile range of 195.8 to 529.5. CVD continues to be the primary cause of death in ESC countries, contributing to nearly 2.2 million fatalities in women and over 1.9 million deaths in men, according to the latest data. Ischemic heart disease remains the leading cause of CVD mortality, accounting for 38% of deaths in women and 44% in men.[8] The estimated annual incidence of myocardial infarction in the United States includes 550,000 new cases and 200,000 recurrent cases. In 2013, 116,793 persons in the United States experienced a fatal myocardial infarction, with 57% occurring in men and 43% in women. The average age of incidence of a first myocardial infarction is 65.1 for men and 72 for women. Approximately 38% of patients who present to the hospital with ACS have a STEMI.[9] ## Pathophysiology An acute thrombotic coronary event leads to ST-segment elevation on a surface ECG after complete and persistent blood flow occlusion. Coronary atherosclerosis and the presence of a high-risk thin-cap fibroatheroma can result in sudden-onset plaque rupture.[10] This event results in vascular endothelium changes, producing a cascade of platelet adhesion, activation, and aggregation, ultimately leading to thrombosis.[11] Coronary artery occlusion in animal models shows a "wave-front" of myocardial injury that spreads from the subendocardial myocardium to the subepicardial myocardium, resulting in a transmural infarction that produces ST-segment elevation on surface ECG.[12] Myocardial damage occurs when the blood flow is interrupted, warranting immediate management. Sudden-onset acute ischemia can result in severe microvascular dysfunction. ## History and Physical Acute chest discomfort, which patients may describe as pain, pressure, tightness, heaviness, or a burning sensation, is the most common symptom that leads healthcare professionals to consider the diagnosis of ACS and initiate appropriate diagnostic testing. Diagnostic delays or errors can occur from an incomplete patient history or challenges in obtaining a clear description of symptoms. Therefore, thorough patient history and detailed communication are essential to understand the complexity of ACS-related symptoms, potentially enabling a prompt and accurate diagnosis. Obtaining a focused medical history and identifying the presenting symptoms is essential to quickly guide the patient along the appropriate care pathway. A targeted physical examination should involve evaluating all major pulses, measuring blood pressure in both arms, auscultating heart and lung sounds, and