like malignancies and lymphomas. Therefore, special stains for hepatitis B, CMV, EBV, adenovirus hepatitis, and herpes simplex, along with immune-histopathological stains, could be considered. ## History and Physical A comprehensive history helps to delineate possible etiologies. For example, the following information could be obtained from the patient's chart, the patient, or the family: - Any history of hepatic disease or hepatic decompensation - Any concomitant relevant chronic health conditions - The timeline of symptoms with which the patient has presented. This is particularly important in patients with acetaminophen toxicity. - Toxic habits or high-risk behavior - Any recent medications or recent ingestion of hepatotoxins, including herbal products - Family history: always ask for Wilson disease and thrombotic disorders. - Any recent surgeries where anesthetic agents could be implicated as the possible etiology of the ALF. Physical exam findings of hypotension, altered mental status, fever (with infectious etiology), right upper quadrant discomfort, pain, and tenderness with nausea and features of jaundice and fluid overload may be included. ## Evaluation Prolonged INR greater than or equal to 1.5, often elevated bilirubin and aminotransferases, thrombocytopenia, with anemia, hypoglycemia, elevated ammonia and features of acute renal injury (with elevated serum creatinine), and dyselectrolytemia (hypokalemia, hypophosphatemia) is common. Imaging of the abdomen, pelvis, brain, and chest should be considered. Abdominal imaging to determine the presence of cirrhosis, features of portal hypertension, hepatocellular carcinoma, vascular thrombosis, lymph nodes, and spleen is vital. Abdominal sonogram with Doppler could be considered in patients with concomitant renal injury and vascular thrombosis. Brain imaging (CT or an MRI) is helpful to rule out organic etiology of altered mental status while chest imaging will help rule out pulmonary edema or pneumonia. ## Treatment / Management The management of ALF consists of supportive care, prevention, and management of complications, specific treatment when the exact etiology is known, and determination of prognosis and the need for liver support including possible liver transplantation.[10][11][12] All patients should be hospitalized, preferably at a center which has facilities and expertise for a liver transplant. **Supportive and Preventive Care** 1. Access hemodynamic stability and the need for intravenous fluids and maintenance of acid-base levels and normal electrolytes. Vasopressors are indicated to maintain a mean arterial pressure of 75 mm Hg or higher to ensure adequate renal and cerebral perfusion. 1. Monitor hematocrit for any bleeding, as the patients have coagulopathy and poor platelet functions. Blood products of platelets