indicate volume status. Irregular rhythm may indicate electrolyte imbalance-related arrhythmias. Pericardial friction rub may be heard in uremic pericarditis, and a heart murmur is often heard in the case of endocarditis. Embolic disease can present as cyanotic extremities. ## Evaluation Evaluation of AKI should include a thorough search for all possible etiologies of AKI, including prerenal, intrarenal, and postrenal disease. Noting the time of onset of AKI can be useful when dealing with hospitalized patients. For example, if a sudden creatinine rise is noted, an inciting factor usually occurs in the 24 to 48 hours preceding this onset. It is imperative to look for any radiologic studies involving the use of iodinated contrast agents, a common cause of AKI. It is also important to review the medications the patient is receiving and determine if the doses need to be modified. ACE inhibitors and ARBs are often the co-contributors to AKI. All patients presenting with AKI warrant a comprehensive metabolic panel. Urine electrolytes can also help suggest an etiology of the AKI. Urine studies should be checked for electrolytes, protein, osmolality, and albumin-to-creatinine ratios. Older patients may warrant serum and urine protein electrophoresis (SPEP and UPEP) to rule out monoclonal gammopathy and multiple myeloma. Renal ultrasound can be helpful if obstructive causes are suspected. CT scans are another important radiographic modality and can be used to look for nephrolithiasis or urolithiasis. Urine microscopy can also provide important clues about the etiology, such as muddy brown casts seen in ATN or white blood cell casts sometimes seen in AIN. Sterile pyuria is the most specific sign of acute interstitial nephritis.[12][13] Although creatinine is the most commonly used serum chemistry to evaluate for AKI, there is evidence that other biomarkers may be more sensitive and may be elevated earlier in the course of AKI compared to creatinine. Some of these include neutrophil gelatinase–associated lipocalin (NGAL), which can be measured in the plasma and urine, kidney injury binding protein-1 (KIM-1), retinol-binding protein, cystatin C, α/β microglobulin, and urine uromodulin. The use of these biomarkers is not widely available and has not yet been validated in wide-scale studies.[14][15] A kidney biopsy is an excellent but infrequently utilized tool. It is usually indicated in patients with rapidly declining renal function without apparent cause or when multiple etiologies of AKI are possible. It is a test with some associated risks, such as bleeding, and should be used