ischemia and then infarction of that part of the heart. ## History and Physical The classic symptom of ACS is substernal chest pain, often described as crushing or pressure-like feeling, radiating to the jaw and/or left arm. This classic presentation is not seen always, and the presenting complaint can be very vague and subtle with chief complaints often being difficulty breathing, lightheadedness, isolated jaw or left arm pain, nausea, epigastric pain, diaphoresis, and weakness. Female gender, patients with diabetes, and older age are all associated with ACS presenting with vague symptoms. A high degree of suspicion is warranted in such cases. In the physical exam, general distress and diaphoresis are often seen. Heart sounds are frequently normal. At times, gallop and murmur can be heard. Lung exam is normal, although at times crackles may be heard pointing toward associated congestive heart failure (CHF). Bilateral leg edema may be present indicating CHF. The rest of the systems are typically within normal limits unless co-pathologies are present. The presence of abdominal tenderness to palpation should make the provider consider other pathologies like pancreatitis and gastritis. The presence of unequal pulses warrants consideration of aortic dissection. The presence of unilateral leg swelling should warrant work-up for pulmonary emboli. Hence a thorough physical exam is very important to rule out other life-threatening differentials. ## Evaluation The first step of evaluation is an ECG, which helps differentiate between STEMI and NSTEMI unstable angina. American Heart Association guidelines maintain that any patient with complaints suspicious of ACS should get an ECG within 10 minutes of arrival. Cath lab should be activated as soon as STEMI is confirmed in a percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) center. Cardiac enzymes especially troponin, CK-MB/CK ratio is important in assessing the NSTEMI versus myocardial ischemia without tissue destruction. A chest x-ray is useful in diagnosing causes other than MI presenting with chest pain like pneumonia and pneumothorax. The same applies for blood work like complete blood count (CBC), chemistry, liver function test, and lipase which can help differentiate intraabdominal pathology presenting with chest pain. Aortic dissection and pulmonary emboli should be kept in differential and investigated when the situation warrants. [7][8][9] ## Treatment / Management The initial treatment for all ACS includes aspirin (300 mg) and heparin bolus and intravenous (IV) heparin infusion if there are no contraindications to the same. Antiplatelet therapy with ticagrelor or clopidogrel is also recommended. The choice