patients with DKA. In any patient who is severely obtunded or comatose or who has declining mental status despite treatment or focal neurologic deficits, there should be a very low threshold to treat for cerebral edema. Mannitol is typically the first-line agent, though there are also studies in both TBI literature and DKA literature regarding the use of 3% saline. **Precipitating Events** Infection is a very common trigger for DKA in patients who have new-onset diabetes and previously established diabetes. If there is any suspicion of infection, antibiotics should be administered promptly. As discussed, there can be other events that trigger DKA as well. Treating both DKA and any other underlying etiologies should be done. ## Differential Diagnosis Diabetic ketoacidosis has a diverse presentation, and this is why several other common pathologies may mimic this diagnosis. It is imperative for the providers to consider the following differential diagnoses when the diagnosis of DKA is suspected: - Hyperosmolar hyperglycemic nonketotic syndrome - Starvation ketosis - Myocardial infarction - Pancreatitis - Alcoholic ketoacidosis - Lactic acidosis - Sepsis - Toxicologic exposure (ethylene glycol, methanol, paraldehyde, salicylate) - Diabetic medication overdose - Uremia ## Prognosis Diabetic ketoacidosis still carries a mortality rate of 0.2 to 2.5% in developing countries. Patients who present in a comatose state, hypothermia, and oliguria tend to have the worst outcomes. For most patients treated promptly, the outcomes are good, especially if the trigger is not an infection. Elderly patients with concurrent illnesses such as myocardial infarction, pneumonia, or sepsis tend to have long hospital stays and high mortality. The most important cause of mortality is cerebral edema, usually seen in younger patients. The cerebral edema is primarily due to the intracellular shifts. Another important cause of morbidity is renal dysfunction. A recent study has noted that among patients with type-2 diabetes mellitus who develop DKA, there is a high risk of stroke within the first six months after the event. ## Complications Hypoglycemia is the most common complication of diabetic ketoacidosis while being treated, occurring in an estimated 5–25% of patients with DKA.[37] Acute adverse outcomes of hypoglycemia include seizures, arrhythmias, and cardiovascular events. Hourly blood sugar monitoring is needed in the acute phase of treatment. Hypokalemia is common. Severe hypokalemia can cause muscle weakness, cardiac arrhythmias, and cardiac arrest.[8] Monitoring and management are described in this article under the DKA management section in detail. Other possible electrolyte