disturbances are hyperchloremia, which can occur in up to 1/3rd of patients, and hypomagnesemia, and hyponatremia.[42] Cerebral edema is less common in adults than in children. Risk factors include younger age, new-onset diabetes, longer duration of symptoms, the lower partial pressure of carbon dioxide, severe acidosis, low initial bicarbonate level, low sodium level, high glucose level at presentation, rapid hydration, and retained fluid in the stomach.[39] Rhabdomyolysis may occur in patients with DKA though it occurs more commonly with HHS. It may result in acute kidney failure. Severe hypophosphatemia in relation to DKA can also cause rhabdomyolysis.[43] Acute respiratory failure could be associated with DKA. Causes could be pneumonia, ARDS, or pulmonary edema. Two varieties of pulmonary edema in DKA have been recognized, secondary to elevated pulmonary venous pressure, and because of increased pulmonary capillary permeability.[44] TTP and myocarditis have also been described with DKA. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Education on the disease process of diabetes, including short and long term complications, should be given to all patients. Patients should be taught how and when to check their glucose. Patients should receive education about how to use oral hypoglycemic meds and/or insulin, their side effects, and the importance of compliance. Dietitians, nurses, and multi-disciplinary home health can be important members of the team in assisting with this education. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Diabetic ketoacidosis is a life-threatening complication of diabetes, and any delay in treatment can lead to death. The disorder can present with varied signs and symptoms and affects many organs; thus, it is best managed by an interprofessional team dedicated to the management of patients with diabetes mellitus. The majority of patients first present to the emergency department, and it is here that the treatment usually starts. The triage nurse has to be familiar with the signs and symptoms of DKA and immediately admit the patient and notify the emergency department physician. While the patient is being resuscitated, placed on a monitor, and having blood drawn, the intensivist and an endocrinologist should be consulted. Immediate blood work is necessary to determine the state of ketoacidosis, and imaging may be necessary to rule out pneumonia. If the mental status is altered, a CT scan may be required, and thus the radiologist must be notified about the patient's hemodynamic status. No patient with DKA should go unmonitored to a radiology suite. The infectious disease expert and cardiologist should