developed countries. Unfortunately, anaphylaxis is often misdiagnosed or not diagnosed at all. The consequences of missed or delayed diagnosis result in increased morbidity and mortality.[7][8][9] ## Pathophysiology Anaphylaxis is typically an IgE-mediated (type 1) hypersensitivity reaction that involves the release of numerous chemical mediators from the degranulation of basophils and mast cells after re-exposure to a specific antigen. IgE crosslinking and resultant aggregation of high-affinity receptors induce the rapid release of stored chemical mediators. These chemical mediators include histamine, tryptase, carboxypeptidase A, and proteoglycans. Via activation of phospholipase A, cyclooxygenases, and lipoxygenases, they then form arachidonic acid metabolites, including leukotrienes, prostaglandins, and platelet-activating factors.[10][11] The inflammatory response is then mediated by TNF-alpha (tumor necrosis factor) as a preformed and late-phase reactant. The detailed physiology of these chemical mediators is as follows: - Histamine increases vascular permeability and vasodilation, leading to tissue hypoperfusion. The body responds to these changes by increasing heart rate and cardiac contraction. - Prostaglandin D functions as a bronchoconstrictor, simultaneously constricting cardiac and pulmonary arteries. It also potentiates peripheral vasodilation, contributing to the hypoperfusion of vital organs. - Leukotrienes add to bronchoconstriction and vascular permeability and induce airway remodeling. - The platelet activation factor also acts as a bronchoconstrictor and increases vascular permeability. - TNF-alpha activates neutrophils (as part of stress response leukocytosis) and increases chemokine synthesis. ## Histopathology Rapid mast cell and basophil degranulation are attributed to the causation of the overactive immune response that culminates in the clinical picture of anaphylaxis. ## History and Physical Clinical presentation often begins as a mild allergic reaction. The primary symptoms depend on the mode of exposure to the causative antigen. While cutaneous flushing with pruritus and urticaria are common, they may not develop until after respiratory symptoms occur, which is common in oral exposures. Fullness or a "lump in the throat," persistent clearing of the throat, or difficulty breathing are all concerning symptoms of anaphylaxis and should be treated aggressively. Other respiratory symptoms include hoarseness, wheezing, and stridor. Rapid treatment should be initiated with intramuscular epinephrine if any of these symptoms are present. Anaphylaxis is a rapidly evolving presentation, usually within 1 hour of exposure. Roughly half of the anaphylactic-related fatalities occur within this first hour; therefore, the first hour after the initial symptom onset is the most crucial for treatment. It is important to note that the more rapid the onset and progression of symptoms, the more