unpredictable disorder that is life-threatening. The disorder often occurs after exposure to certain antigens, mostly insect venom, food, or medications. The condition is immune-mediated and rapidly induces symptoms. For those who have not encountered anaphylaxis, the diagnosis can be difficult. In the United States, the rates of anaphylaxis have doubled over the past 20 years, and at least 1500 people die from the disorder each year. The potentially life-threatening nature of the disorder makes it imperative that one be prepared and offer prompt treatment. This is 1 of the few medical disorders during which a healthcare worker does not have the luxury of time. Having epinephrine on hand can be life-saving if one wants to avoid a fatal outcome. However, despite considerable evidence that epinephrine is the drug of choice, it is under-used. Instead, many healthcare workers use an antihistamine, a drug that does not prevent or relieve all the manifestations of anaphylaxis.[20] In addition, the antihistamine does not even start to work for 1 to 3 hours, depending on the route of administration. Given these findings, all healthcare workers must be educated on anaphylaxis and its treatment. Evidence indicates that healthcare workers are critical for managing and preventing anaphylaxis. Since people may develop anaphylaxis almost anywhere, all healthcare workers must know the signs and symptoms of the disorder and know how to administer epinephrine. The pharmacist is in a key position to educate the patient and family about anaphylaxis. Plus, the pharmacist can teach the patient and family to carry epinephrine with them all the time. In addition, all physicians, nurses, and other allied healthcare workers need to know the signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis and how to administer epinephrine. The treating physician should reduce all the trigger factors and ensure optimal asthma management.[21] **Outcomes** Despite awareness of the seriousness of anaphylaxis, treatment of anaphylaxis is not optimal. At least 1500 die each year from a condition that can be treated and even prevented. Although the seriousness of anaphylaxis is well established, there are no randomized trials to determine the effectiveness of antihistamines and how they compare to epinephrine. Further, the outcomes to measure after treatment have never been defined. Without solid clinical data, all healthcare workers must be prepared to deal with anaphylaxis as members of an interprofessional healthcare team and possess the knowledge and skills to administer epinephrine and coordinate with other team members to arrange the