certain significant and life-threatening bleeding situations include: a) Use of activated charcoal with 2 hours of the last dose of anticoagulant b) Hemodialysis c) Red blood cell transfusion for anemia d) Platelet transfusion if thrombocytopenic e) Some cases may warrant surgical or endoscopic intervention Different anticoagulants have specific reversal agents that act to counteract their effects. 1. Unfractionated Heparin: Protamine sulfate counteracts the anti-10a activity of unfractionated heparin. Protamine sulfate has a short half-life and is usually administered intravenously. The ideal dose to achieve full resolution of anti-10a action can be calculated by 1 mg/100units of heparin remaining in the blood. The amount of heparin remaining in the blood can be estimated based on the previous dose of heparin, the interval since the last treatment, considering its half-life of one to two hours (doses of 50mg or 25mg via slow intravenous infusion). 1. Low Molecular Weight (LMW) Heparin: Protamine sulfate is indicated for bleeding in patients on LMW heparin, although not as effective as with bleeding associated with unfractionated heparin. It is known to neutralize the larger molecules of the LMW heparin, which are the culprits in bleeding. 1. Direct Oral Anticoagulants (Dabigatran): Idarucizumab is an anti-dabigatran monoclonal antibody fragment used in patients treated with dabigatran presenting with life-threatening bleeding. Its dose is 5 grams intravenously. 1. Direct Oral Anticoagulants (Apixaban, Betrixaban, Edoxaban, Rivaroxaban): Andexanet alfa can be given as 800 mg bolus at 30 mg/minute followed by 960 mg infusion at 8 mg/minute or half of this dose depending on the dose of anticoagulation and last dose of direct oral anticoagulant received above 8 hours. 1. Other Agents: Other nonspecific reversal agents that can be used if andexanet is not available are; 4-factor activated prothrombin complex concentrate (4-factor PCC), factor eight inhibitor bypassing activity (FEIBA), antifibrinolytic agents (tranexamic acid, epsilon-aminocaproic acid), or desmopressin (DDAVP).[25] ## Clinical Significance **Bridging Anticoagulation** Perioperative and periprocedural anticoagulation management is a constant clinical dilemma for providers. Estimation of the risk of thromboembolism, bleeding, and timing of anticoagulation should be considered for patients undergoing elective procedures. Bridging anticoagulation, most commonly with low molecular weight heparin, should be considered in cases with considerable risk of thromboembolic events. For patients with low risk, bridging anticoagulation is not indicated. However, for patients with significant risk, bridging anticoagulation is indicated.[[26]](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32243278)[27][28] The American College of Cardiology (ACC), American Heart Association (AHA), and HRS (Heart Rhythm Society) recommendations are considered.[29] **Initiating