risk stratification in predicting symptom onset and event-free survival in symptomatic patients. When stenosis severity is moderate or symptoms are equivocal, an elevated BNP level can be helpful, but its role in disease progression has not been fully defined.[41] Survival is poor in symptomatic patients, even while the symptoms are mild, unless the outflow obstruction is relieved. Average survival without AVR is only about 1 to 3 years after the symptom onset.[42][43][38] ## Complications 1. Severe symptomatic aortic stenosis patients are at a high risk of sudden death. Hence, these patients need to be promptly referred for AVR. Although sudden death is common in symptomatic patients, it can occasionally occur in asymptomatic patients as well. 1. Heart failure is one of the most common complications of aortic stenosis. Most patients will have left ventricular hypertrophy with normal systolic function. Diastolic dysfunction develops secondary to hypertrophy and fibrosis and often persists even after AVR. However, some patients can present with systolic dysfunction secondary to the afterload mismatch, resulting in a low ejection fraction. 1. Pulmonary hypertension due to chronic elevation in LV diastolic filling pressure. Another complication associated with aortic stenosis is conduction abnormalities. They occur due to hypertrophy, calcium extension from the valve to the interventricular septum, or existing heart disease. 1. Patients with aortic stenosis are also at an increased risk for infective endocarditis, particularly patients with the bicuspid aortic valve. 1. They are also at increased risk of bleeding, especially GI bleeding, due to acquired von Willebrand syndrome. 1. Cerebral or systemic emboli can occur due to calcific emboli from the valve. ## Deterrence and Patient Education It is necessary to develop and implement effective postoperative education approaches, to be mindful of the results of the strategy, and to provide a dose of educational interventions. Understanding the patient characteristics that predict poor outcomes is important. Doctors and nurses have a critical function in educating patients. Educating asymptomatic patients about the development of potential symptoms is crucial for early intervention. The individualization of content, the usage of digital platforms for dissemination, the availability of one-on-one instruction, and the enhancement in educational and health performance in various sessions have demonstrated positive results. Patients have the benefits and downsides of each intervention reviewed in detail to make an informed decision. They also need to be educated regarding wound dressing and watching for signs of infection in surgical AVR. They should be