be some reluctance in treating hypertension in this subset of patients as aortic stenosis is known to be a condition with fixed afterload. Vasodilation would not be offset by an increase in stroke volume. However, studies demonstrate that, even in patients with severe aortic stenosis, vasodilation is accompanied by a stroke volume increase. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers are preferentially considered. AVR is indicated in patients with heart failure and volume overload, but diuretics can help decrease congestion and provide symptomatic relief before surgery. Balloon aortic valvuloplasty has a modest improvement in the hemodynamic status of the patients. Although it provides a short-term improvement in survival and quality of life, the benefits are not sustained.[27] AVR is recommended in adults with symptomatic aortic stenosis, even if the symptoms are mild. It is also recommended in asymptomatic patients with severe aortic stenosis with (1) LV ejection fraction (LVEF) less than 50%, (2) who are undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) or any other form of heart surgery, (3) Abnormal exercise treadmill test, (4) peak velocity greater than 5 m/sec and mean pressure gradient greater than 60, and (5) annual progression of peak velocity of greater than 0.3 m/s/year.[28][17][29] AVR can be with a surgical or transcatheter approach.[30] Symptoms such as exertional dyspnea and angina are relieved in most of the patients, and a majority will experience an increase in exercise tolerance. LVEF often improves after the surgery, but longitudinal strain might still be impaired.[31] The operative mortality in surgical AVR is about 3.2% in patients undergoing isolated AVR.[32][33] It is less than 1% in patients aged less than 70 and having minimal comorbidities. Advanced age should not be considered a contraindication to the surgery, and 30-day mortality is about 4.2%. Transcatheter AVR has transformed the treatment of patients in calcific aortic stenosis over the last decade. It was initially shown to be superior to medical therapy in patients who are not candidates for surgery. But later, it turned out to be superior to the surgical AVR in high-risk and also intermediate-risk patients. The long-term durability of the procedure is yet to be determined. The most common approach used is the transfemoral approach, especially as there is a progressive decrease in the sheath size. A heart valve team of cardiac surgeons, interventional cardiologists, clinical and imaging experts in valve disease, as well as nurses, anesthetists, and geriatricians, as needed, are