essential to recommend the choice of surgical AVR versus transcatheter AVR, given the complexity of the issues. Guidelines recommend AVR for aortic stenosis patients depending on the stage of the condition (image 3) and other factors. Recommendations for considering AVR are explained in detail in image 1.[34] The choice of intervention applies to both surgical AVR and transcatheter AVR. The choice of proceeding with surgical AVR or transcatheter AVR, including multiple factors and is shown in images 1 and 3.[35] ## Differential Diagnosis The majority of symptoms, such as syncope and angina, overlap with other disease processes, and consequently, the diagnosis can be missed in an acute setting. Cardiomyopathy and coronary artery disease contribute to most of these. Exertional dyspnea can also be caused by non-cardiac conditions like pulmonary disease. Diagnosis can be challenging, but the standard pulmonary function tests and cardiopulmonary exercise testing can help differentiate between the conditions. Other causes of ejection systolic murmur with or without LV outflow obstruction include hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, aortic sclerosis, and subvalvular stenosis. Subvalvular stenosis can occur from a variety of fixed lesions and can have a dynamic component. A high frequency of supravalvular stenosis occurs in Williams syndrome. A majority of patients have an hourglass deformity with constriction of a thickened ascending aorta at the superior aspect of the sinus of Valsalva. ## Staging Stages of the condition include asymptomatic and symptomatic stages taking into consideration the valve hemodynamics. Stages are shown in image 2.[35] ## Prognosis In asymptomatic patients, repeat imaging is typically performed every 3 to 5 years for mild, 1 to 2 years for moderate, and 6 to 12 months for severe aortic stenosis unless they become symptomatic.[35][29] It is difficult to predict the rate of progression of aortic stenosis as it is highly variable. However, older age, severe leaflet calcification, hypertension, obesity, smoking, hyperlipidemia, renal insufficiency, metabolic syndrome, elevated circulating levels of lipoprotein A, and increased activity of lipoprotein-A are associated with rapid hemodynamic regression.[36][37][16] Doppler aortic jet velocity is the strongest predictor of symptom progression in asymptomatic patients.[38][39] Prognosis remains excellent in these patients once moderate to severe aortic stenosis, provided the patient is asymptomatic.[40] Lack of contractile reserve in patients with low-flow, low-gradient, low EF aortic stenosis, very elevated BNP, frailty, very low mean gradient (less than 20 mm Hg), oxygen-dependent lung disease, advanced renal dysfunction, and very high STS score are the factors useful for