of sympathomimetic agents such as cocaine, ecstasy, or energy drinks) - Genetic conditions include: - Marfan syndrome - In an International Registry of Acute Aortic Dissection (IRAD) review, Marfan syndrome was present in 50% of those younger than 40, compared with only 2% of older patients. - In patients with Marfan syndrome, cystic medial necrosis is seen in the tissues. - Ehlers-Danlos syndrome - Turner syndrome - Bicuspid aortic valve - Coarctation of the aorta - Preexisting aortic aneurysm - Atherosclerosis - Pregnancy and delivery - This risk is compounded in pregnant women with connective tissue disorders such as Marfan syndrome. - Family history - Aortic instrumentation or surgery (eg, coronary artery bypass, aortic or mitral valve replacement, and percutaneous stenting or catheter insertion) - Inflammatory or infectious diseases that cause vasculitis (eg, syphilis, cocaine use) [7] ## Epidemiology Acute aortic dissection is a rare but life-threatening condition, with an incidence of 5 to 30 cases per 1 million people per year. This contrasts sharply with acute myocardial infarction, which has approximately 4400 cases per 1 million people annually. Aortic dissection accounts for 3 out of every 1000 emergency department presentations involving acute chest, back, or abdominal pain. The condition predominantly affects individuals between 40 and 70, with most cases occurring in patients aged 50 to 65. Approximately 75% of dissections happen in this age range, highlighting age as a key risk factor. While men are 3 times more likely to develop aortic dissection than women, women often present later in the disease course and have worse outcomes.[8] The risk profile differs between older and younger patients: older patients are more likely to have hypertension, atherosclerosis, prior aortic aneurysm, or iatrogenic dissection, while younger patients, particularly those younger than 40, are more likely to have connective tissue disorders like Marfan syndrome. Type A dissections involving the ascending aorta are twice as common as type B dissections and are more likely to be fatal without urgent intervention. Hypertension is the most prevalent modifiable risk factor, present in about 75% of patients, while other risk factors include atherosclerosis, connective tissue disorders, and previous cardiac surgery. ## Pathophysiology Aortic dissection occurs when a tear in the intimal layer of the aortic wall allows blood to enter the space between the intima and media, creating a false lumen. The aortic wall has 3 layers: the intima, media, and adventitia. Chronic exposure to high pulsatile