Endoscopic Surgery (NOTES) and Single-incision Laparoscopic Surgery (SILS), have been introduced recently. NOTES accesses the peritoneal cavity through natural orifices such as the gastrointestinal or vaginal tract. This surgical approach allows for a scarless or nearly scarless procedure. The major potential advantages of NOTES appendectomy are the avoidance of visible scars and reduced postoperative pain. A detailed comparison of postoperative outcomes that includes NOTES appendectomy is not yet possible; patient numbers are limited. The most significant drawback of this surgical technique is the need to hybrid with the laparoscopic approach to provide adequate retraction during the procedure and confirm the closure of the entry site.[41][42][43][44][45] As a surgical technique, SILS for an appendectomy is performed with one incision in the umbilicus or a preexisting abdominal scar. Potential advantages of the SILS technique include decreased postoperative pain, wound-related postoperative complications, and recovery time.[46] However, up to 40% of patients require intraoperative conversion to a conventional laparoscopic procedure. The major disadvantage of SILS for an appendectomy is the higher risk of long-term complications, particularly incisional hernia. ## Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis of acute appendicitis includes but is not limited to Crohn ileitis, mesenteric adenitis, complicated cecal diverticulum, mittelschmerz, salpingitis, ruptured ovarian cyst, ectopic pregnancy, tubo-ovarian abscess, musculoskeletal disorders, endometriosis, pelvic inflammatory disease, gastroenteritis, right-sided colitis, renal colic, kidney stones, irritable bowel disease, testicular torsion, ovarian torsion, round ligament syndrome, and epididymitis. A comprehensive medical history and a problem-oriented physical examination are necessary to narrow the differential diagnosis. Recent viral infection is suggestive of acute mesenteric adenitis. Acute bacterial ileitis may be due to infections with _Yersinia_ or _Campylobacter_ species.[47] Severe cervical motion tenderness during the bimanual pelvic examination may indicate pelvic inflammatory disease. One of the most challenging differential diagnoses of acute appendicitis is the acute presentation of Crohn disease. While a past medical history significant for Crohn disease can prevent unnecessary surgical procedures in the setting of acute abdominal pain, Crohn disease can initially present acutely, mimicking acute appendicitis. Intraoperatively, ileal inflammation should raise the suspicion of Crohn disease. ## Surgical Oncology The occurrence rate of appendiceal neoplasms in the United States is 1.2 cases per 100,000; nearly 30% of these patients present with acute abdominal pain. The most common appendiceal malignancies are gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine or carcinoid tumors (GEP-NETs), goblet cell carcinoma (GCC), colonic-type adenocarcinoma, and mucinous neoplasm.[48] **Gastroenteropancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors (GEP-NETs)** GEP-NETs are the most common histopathological subtype of