males and females is not substantial. ## Pathophysiology Regardless of its cause, appendiceal luminal obstruction causes a rise in both intraluminal and intramural pressure. This increased pressure leads to small vessel occlusion, thrombosis, and lymphatic stasis. As a result, the obstructed appendix fills with mucus and becomes distended. As lymphatic and vascular compromise continues to progress, the wall of the appendix undergoes ischemia and necrosis. In addition, bacterial overgrowth occurs within the obstructed appendix, initially dominated by aerobic organisms during the early stages of appendicitis and later transitioning to a mixture of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria as the disease progresses. Commonly involved organisms include _E coli_ , _Peptostreptococcus_ , _Bacteroides_ , and _Pseudomonas_. Once significant inflammation and necrosis develop, the appendix becomes susceptible to perforation, which can form a localized abscess. In severe cases, this can progress to peritonitis.[14] ## Histopathology A significant microscopic finding in cases of acute appendicitis is the presence of neutrophilic infiltration within the appendiceal muscularis propria. The severity of the infection and duration of the disease process directly correlates with the degree and extent of the inflammation observed. As acute appendicitis progresses, the inflammation involves the appendiceal fat and surrounding tissues.[15] Based on histopathological findings, acute appendicitis is classified into three main categories: suppurative or phlegmonous, gangrenous, and periappendicitis. Suppurative or phlegmonous appendicitis is characterized by neutrophils infiltrating the appendiceal mucosa, submucosa, and muscularis propria. The inflammatory process extends throughout the entire appendiceal wall and can cause extensive ulceration. In addition, intramural abscesses accompanied by vascular thrombosis may be observed. Suppurative appendicitis has a varied gross appearance but commonly observed findings include poorly-demarcated serosa, dilation of the appendix, congestion of surface blood vessels, and fibrinopurulent serosal exudate. However, an increased appendiceal diameter alone is not a conclusive finding and should be interpreted in conjunction with other clinical and histopathological features. Gangrenous appendicitis is characterized by the necrosis of the appendix wall. If left untreated, perforation will eventually occur. In cases where perforation has taken place, transmural inflammation with areas of necrosis and extensive mucosal ulceration can be observed. Therefore, perforation is considered a complication of untreated gangrenous appendicitis. Grossly, the appendix wall appears friable and may display shades of purple, green, or black. Periappendicitis primarily involves serosal and subserosal inflammation without extending into the muscularis propria. The gross appearance of periappendicitis varies from normal serosa to congestion, accompanied by exudative infiltration.[16] Detailed histopathological findings differ