sleep or intensifies when walking or coughing. Alongside abdominal pain, individuals may also present with anorexia, nausea with or without vomiting, diarrhea, malaise, and urinary frequency or urgency.[18] Approximately 40% of patients with acute appendicitis are febrile at the time of presentation. Some patients may exhibit atypical or uncommon presenting features. Physical examination findings are often subtle, especially in early appendicitis. As inflammation progresses, signs of peritoneal irritation develop. Localized guarding of the right lower abdominal quadrant and rebound tenderness of McBurney point, approximately 1.5 to 2 inches from the anterior superior iliac spine (ASIS) on a straight imaginary line to the umbilicus, are frequently observed in cases of acute appendicitis. However, these clinical findings are not specific to appendicitis and can also be present in other conditions. There are other commonly encountered physical examination findings in cases of suspected appendicitis. However, it is essential to note that these findings are not diagnostic. Dunphy sign is the finding of increased abdominal pain with coughing or performing any activity that increases intra-abdominal pressure. Rovsing sign is pain in the right lower quadrant elicited by palpation or pressure of the left lower quadrant. A positive psoas sign is right lower quadrant pain with right hip extension or right thigh flexion against resistance. This pain occurs due to irritation of the psoas muscle by the inflamed appendix. Patients often flex the hip to shorten the muscle to relieve this pain.[19] The time course of symptoms in acute appendicitis is highly variable; symptoms typically escalate gradually from the onset of appendicitis and may progress for 12 to 24 hours. However, it is important to note that in complicated appendicitis cases, symptoms can be prolonged and extend beyond 48 hours. Approximately 75% of patients with acute appendicitis present within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms. The risk of appendiceal rupture can vary, with about 2% of cases rupturing around 36 hours from the onset of symptoms. This risk tends to increase by approximately 5% for every additional 12 hours that pass without appropriate medical intervention. Following appendiceal perforation, additional complications can arise. These complications may include pylephlebitis, pylethrombosis, hydroureteronephrosis, bowel obstruction, and the formation of internal fistulae. These internal fistulae can involve various structures such as the bladder, vagina, uterus, or skin. These complications may result in resistant fever and significant weight loss.[20] ## Evaluation **Laboratory Testing** The laboratory evaluation of patients with suspected