relatively safe surgical procedure. In a global observational study, the overall mortality rate for appendicitis was 0.28%.[53] The mortality rate for appendicitis is higher in under-industrialized countries and ranges from 1% to 4%, whereas in industrialized countries, the mortality rate is 0.24%. The following factors are associated with increased mortality rates in appendicitis: age greater than 80 years, immunosuppression, severe cardiovascular disease or the presence of other comorbidities, previous episodes of suspected appendicitis, and prior antimicrobial therapy. If acute appendicitis is diagnosed and definitively treated early in the course of the disease, recovery is expected within 24 to 48 hours. However, patients that present with advanced abscesses, peritonitis, or sepsis may have a more prolonged and complicated course, possibly requiring additional surgery. ## Complications The most common complication of appendectomy is an infection of the surgical site; this risk is highest in patients with complicated appendicitis with perforation. Surgical site infections include postoperative abscesses and wound infections. Hematomas and postoperative pain are also common complications of appendectomy. [6] Recurrent appendicitis can occur in almost half of the patients managed nonoperatively; reported recurrence rates vary by study and length of follow-up. An interval appendectomy may be performed to mitigate the risk of recurrent appendicitis. Another form of recurrent appendicitis is stump appendicitis, resulting from an incomplete appendectomy and subsequent inflammation in the residual appendiceal stump. While stump appendicitis is most often seen following operative management of complicated appendicitis with perforation, it can occur whenever an excessively long appendiceal stump is left in situ. A stump size ≤5 mm minimizes the risk of stump appendicitis. Stump resection via an open or laparoscopic approach is the definitive therapeutic option; perforated appendiceal stumps often require extensive bowel resection.[54] Diffuse peritonitis and sepsis are severe consequences of untreated or complicated appendicitis. These conditions can cause significant morbidity and, in some cases, even death. ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care Patients with uncomplicated appendicitis generally experience an uneventful postoperative course, and antibiotic therapy is not required. However, patients with complicated appendicitis should be scheduled for a 4-day course of antibiotic therapy. Wound complications, including infections, should be managed by ensuring an adequate wound opening and irrigation, followed by packing. However, antibiotic therapy is essential in managing patients who have complications such as abscess formation and deep fascial plane involvement. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Patients may resume normal activity within a few days to a week. However,