Orthodromic _:_ Conduction down the AV node into an accessory pathway with no delta wave. Signs & Symptoms: Palpitation, shortness of breath, or syncope. EKG Findings: Slurred upstroke of the QRS, delta wave, may give an impression of the wide QRS complex. Management: Amiodarone or procainamide. If this fails, the next step is synchronized cardioversion. Definitive Therapy: Ablation of the accessory pathway. II. Atrioventricular Nodal Reentrant Tachycardia (AVNRT) Mechanism: Slow & fast fibers present in AV node & peri-nodal tissue leading to re-entry. Signs & Symptoms: Sudden tachycardia, palpitation, shortness of breath, chest tightness, or syncope. EKG Findings: Narrow complex tachycardia with P waves hidden in T waves. Heart rate is in the range of 150-160 bpm. Management: Step 1: Carotid massage/Valsalva maneuver Step 2: Adenosine Step 3: Cardioversion Step 4: Ablation or chronic suppressive therapy with beta-blockers and calcium channel blockers such as diltiazem/verapamil. III.\*\*\*\* Atrial fibrillation: It is the most common arrhythmia in the United States. It affects more than 20% of the general population at some time in their lives.[4] There are five types based on their duration:[5] - New-onset - Paroxysmal: Self-terminating or intermittent - Persistent: Fails to self-terminate within 7 days and requires treatments (medical or electrical cardioversion) - Long-standing Persistent: Lasts for ≥ 1 year - Permanent: Persistent for ≥ 1 year despite treatment Mechanism: Multiple reentrant wavelets due to atrial ectopy from muscle fibers near the proximal part of the pulmonary vein. Signs & Symptoms: It can be asymptomatic or can cause symptoms like palpitation, shortness of breath, irregularly irregular pulse, or even hypotension. EKG Findings: Irregularly irregular narrow complex tachycardia with no discernable P-waves. Management: The management strategy for atrial fibrillation can be classified into rate control or rhythm control. The decision to use a rate control or a rhythm-control strategy depends on the hemodynamic stability, candidacy for ablation, and the presence of co-morbidities. Patients with atrial fibrillation are at increased risk of ischemic-embolic stroke, and anticoagulation recommendations are based on the CHA2DS2VaSc score. The CHA2DS2VaSc score is determined by the presence of the following factors: Congestive heart failure (CHF) with ejection fraction (EF) less than 40%, hypertension, age > 65 years, diabetes mellitus, history of stroke (non-hemorrhagic), or transient ischemic attack (TIA), vascular disease (peripheral vascular disease - PVD), age > 75 years, female sex. Each factor adds a point to the score, except for a history of stroke/TIA, which adds