2 points. - If the score is 0: No anticoagulation or aspirin based on individual assessment - If the score is 1: Aspirin or anticoagulation based on individual assessment. - If the score is 2 or more: Anticoagulation is recommended if not at high risk of bleeding. Rate Control Strategy\*\*:\*\* The heart rate goal is < 110 bpm in patients with chronic atrial fibrillation. It can be achieved with either beta-blockers or calcium channel blockers. Digoxin is usually used as adjuvant therapy in a patient with a "difficult to control" heart rate or in heart failure patients. Cardioversion Strategy:\*\*\*\* Cardioversion is preferred in hemodynamically unstable patients or if rate control fails. It is also preferred in a young patient with no other co-morbidities. Cardioversion can be performed within 36 hrs of the onset of atrial fibrillation, but if the presentation is delayed or is of unknown duration, the absence of thrombi needs to be confirmed with a transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE). If a thrombus is present on an echocardiogram, the patient will need anticoagulation for at least three weeks before cardioversion can be performed. The patient needs to be on anticoagulation for at least four weeks post cardioversion. Various modalities are available for cardioversion therapy and include synchronized electric cardioversion or chemical cardioversion with medications including flecainide, propafenone, amiodarone, or dronedarone. Maze procedure is usually reserved for the patient undergoing other cardiac surgery. - Atrial Flutter[6] Mechanism: Reentrant circuit usually around the tricuspid annulus in the right atrium. Signs & Symptoms: Can be asymptomatic, or it can cause palpitation, shortness of breath, or hypotension. EKG Findings: Regular tachycardia with Saw-tooth appearance of P wave with a variable degree of AV block. Management: General goals include control of ventricular rate with AV blocking agents (beta-blockers or calcium channel blockers), but the restoration of sinus rhythm through cardioversion or ablation is preferred. - Multifocal Atrial Tachycardia (MAT) Mechanism: multiple automatic atrial foci due to increased sympathetic tone secondary to various causes, including hypoxemia (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), or stimulant use. Signs & Symptoms: Usually asymptomatic. Patients will have symptoms of the underlying illness, such as dyspnea. EKG Findings: Three or more P wave morphologies with different PR intervals. Management: Oxygen therapy if hypoxemic and treatment of the underlying cause. Refractory cases: Rate Control with calcium channel blockers as the first choice in the setting of COPD followed by beta-blockers. - Junctional tachycardia:[7]