of aspirated secretions can incite infection in patients with a high bacterial load.[1] Notably, overt aspiration events often go unnoticed, with microaspiration, or silent aspiration, central to the pathophysiological mechanism underlying aspiration pneumonia.[2] While the bacterial load in microaspirations may be minimal, recurrent microaspirations can progressively lead to recurrent aspiration pneumonia over time due to repetitive epithelial injury caused by frequent aspiration events that denude the pulmonary epithelium. Ultimately, the mucociliary transport mechanism and the macrophage-dependent clearance of aspirated material become compromised. In individuals with compromised immunity, subsequent exposure to aspirated organisms in the alveolar space precipitates infection.[4] Various interacting mechanisms can contribute to impaired swallowing. In older adults, diminished pharyngeal sensory perception for swallowing and coughing significantly influence impaired swallowing. Additionally, asynchronous breathing patterns during swallowing, characterized by inhalation instead of exhalation, can lead to aspiration. Other predisposing factors include reduced saliva production, ineffective dentition, and delayed laryngeal closure. Furthermore, with aging, the upper esophageal sphincter may decrease in cross-sectional area, resulting in more significant amounts of pharyngeal residue and increasing the risk of aspiration.[1] In the absence of infection, lung fluid is typically considered sterile. However, recent advancements in culture-independent molecular techniques have identified the lung microbiome, which shares many microbes with the normal flora of the oropharynx. A disequilibrium of oropharyngeal bacterial communities is thought to contribute to decreased lung resistance to colonization and a diminished ability to contain potential pathogens. This notion is supported by the predominance of aerobic gram-negative and gram-positive pathogens as the leading causes of infection in hospitalized patients with aspiration pneumonia. While anaerobic bacteria were historically considered the dominant cause of aspiration pneumonia, they are now regarded as infrequent causative pathogens.[3] The consensus is that aspiration pneumonia is polymicrobial, with aerobic gram-negative bacilli as the predominant pathogens and aerobic gram-positive organisms as the second most common cause.[1] ## History and Physical Inconsistent definitions and diagnostic practices have posed challenges in delineating a clear clinical profile of patients with aspiration pneumonia. The overlap of aspiration events and the typical clinical presentation further complicates distinguishing aspiration pneumonia from aspiration pneumonitis. Broadly, patients with aspiration pneumonia typically exhibit characteristics such as older age, frailty, malnutrition, and bedridden status, often accompanied by multiple comorbidities, especially cerebrovascular disease.[5] Patients with aspiration pneumonia commonly exhibit clinical symptoms associated with CAP, including cough, fever, and malaise, which can obscure the distinction between the 2 conditions. In cases where CAP