GI disorders, altered mental status, neurologic disorders, or obstructive sleep apnea. Additionally, enteral nutrition, endotracheal intubation, upper GI endoscopy, and recent cardiac arrest are considered risk factors for aspiration.[3] Patients presenting with clinical and radiologic findings suggestive of aspiration pneumonia without a known history of aspiration before presentation and with at least 1 risk factor for aspiration but without any risk factor for oral colonization should be diagnosed with aspiration pneumonitis.[3] According to this algorithm, the likelihood of aspiration pneumonia or aspiration pneumonitis is low in cases where typical clinical symptoms and radiologic findings are present without a history of aspiration, aspiration risk factors, or oral colonization risk factors.[3] ## Treatment / Management Clinicians should be aware that the recommendations for managing aspiration pneumonia have evolved. Anaerobic coverage is no longer advised in the empiric treatment of aspiration pneumonia due to the low frequency of actual anaerobic infections causing aspiration pneumonia. Additionally, routine diagnostic techniques often cannot reliably detect anaerobic bacteria, which may lead to inappropriate treatment. The Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) also notes that routine diagnostic techniques cannot reliably detect anaerobic bacteria. Given the lack of microbial culture guidance, inappropriate treatment will likely occur. Therefore the ISDA suggests anaerobic coverage solely in cases of "classic aspiration pleuropulmonary syndromes" where patients have a history of loss of consciousness (eg, alcohol use, drug overdose, seizures) along with concomitant gingival disease or esophageal motility disorders. Current guidelines recommend empiric treatment for CAP and maintaining high oxygen tension with mechanical ventilation in situations involving small-volume aspirations, such as during intubation.[7] This approach aims to provide appropriate treatment while minimizing the risk of unnecessary antibiotic use. Current guidelines for treating aspiration pneumonia follow recommendations outlined in 2019 by the American Thoracic Society (ATS) and IDSA for managing CAP. The initial step in determining a treatment regimen is to assess the severity of the pneumonia. As per 2019 ATS/IDSA, severe CAP is diagnosed when 1 major criterion or 3 or minor criteria from the following list are present:[8] - Minor criteria - Respiratory rate is >30 breaths/min. - Ratio of PaO2/FIO2 \<250 - Multilobar infiltrates are present - The patient is confused or disoriented - Serum urea nitrogen level is >20 mg/dL - WBC \<4,000 cells/mL due to the severity of the infection (not due to other causes such as malignancy or chemotherapy) - Platelet count \<100,000/mL - Core temperature \<36 °C -