the risk of AP in these patients.[1] Other strategies, such as expiratory muscle training in patients with Parkinson disease or voice exercises in patients with glottal closure, have also shown benefits in reducing aspiration frequency. However, the studies supporting their use are small.[1] In several studies, oral care provided via mechanical techniques (toothbrush as opposed to chlorhexidine rinses) has shown reduced aspiration pneumonia frequency and deaths. The British Thoracic Society guidelines recommend nonfoaming fluoride toothpaste in these patients to minimize the risk of aspiration.[1] Modifying the viscosity of fluids and the texture of food in patients with impaired swallowing is used to decrease the risk of aspiration pneumonia worldwide, but little clinical data supports this practice. The current literature does not identify any convincing evidence to suggest that texture-modified food and thickened liquids prevent aspiration pneumonia when used as a stand-alone therapy. However, when modified diets are combined with compensatory postural techniques (such as the chin-tuck maneuver) and therapeutic exercises to strengthen pharyngolaryngeal musculature, they have demonstrated significant clinical impact in reducing the incidence of aspiration pneumonia.[19] It is important to note that modified diets can lead to detrimental side effects. They have been shown to increase the risk of malnutrition, dehydration, and urinary tract infections, especially in elderly patients with underlying neurological disorders.[19] In addition, thickened textures can increase pharyngeal residue. Caution is therefore advised when implementing modified diets in the management of oropharyngeal dysphagia. Careful monitoring to minimize the risk of dehydration and malnutrition is warranted in all individuals on a modified diet. Smaller volumes are recommended in these patients to reduce residue and subsequent aspiration events.[1] Balancing adequate nutrition while minimizing the risk of aspiration is of prime importance. The British Thoracic Society guidelines suggest enteral feeding in patients with no oral intake for more than 3 days or if less than 50% of nutritional requirement is met for more than 10 days.[1] ## Pearls and Other Issues Key points to keep in mind about aspiration pneumonia include the following: - Aspiration pneumonia occurs when oral or gastric contents are aspirated into the lungs, leading to infection. It often results from impaired swallowing or protective airway reflexes. - The common risk factors associated with aspiration pneumonia include advanced age, dysphagia, altered mental status, neurological disorders, and conditions that affect the gag reflex or esophageal motility. - Symptoms may be similar to those of CAP but with a