of dysphagia, prevents post-stroke aspiration pneumonia, and reduces the risk of early mortality.[16] Similarly, in patients with Parkinson disease, early screening and ongoing assessment for dysphagia are essential components of comprehensive care, aiding in timely intervention and reducing the risk of aspiration-related complications.[17] These proactive measures also help tailor interventions to address swallowing impairments and reduce the likelihood of aspiration-related complications. Preventive strategies for aspiration pneumonia should adopt a comprehensive approach involving collaboration among various healthcare professionals. Speech-language pathologists and dieticians play a crucial role in restoring effective swallowing and cough mechanisms, while nursing staff and oral hygienists focus on reducing the oral bacterial load. Additionally, nutritionists are instrumental in ensuring adequate hydration and caloric intake, especially when patients are prescribed modified consistencies of solids and liquids.[1] Patients at risk for aspiration syndromes should undergo evaluation before experiencing an overt aspiration event or aspiration pneumonia. Clinical assessment by nurses and triage staff is paramount in identifying patients with a high aspiration risk. Many different screening tools are available, with no clear evidence identifying the superiority of one screening tool over another. In frail older patients who do not have identifiable risks of aspiration, such as an acute stroke, simple screening tools should be implemented during initial medical contact to detect aspiration risk. One recent study identified the following 4 questions to screen for aspiration risk:[18] - Do you cough and choke when you eat and drink? - Does it take longer to eat your meals than it used to? - Have you changed the type of food that you eat? - Does your voice change after eating or drinking? An affirmative answer to any of the above questions implies impaired swallowing. The pilot study for this screen reported very high sensitivity with a specificity of 80.4%. The advantage of this screening tool is that it is easy to use and consists of very few items that may be administered by any individual in the healthcare setting without any specific training.[18] When aspiration is identified, multiple strategies are utilized to prevent the risk of aspiration pneumonia. The chin-tuck or chin-down method provides physical support to the pharyngolaryngeal musculature by asking the patient to touch the chin against the chest during swallowing. Specific populations, especially those of Asian descent, also benefit from using angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. ACE inhibitors prevent the breakdown of substance P and help preserve cough mechanisms, thus decreasing