cancer have a mortality rate of around 20% due to aspiration pneumonia.[1] In patients with Parkinson disease, aspiration pneumonia is associated with a high risk of mortality, even in the early stages of the disease. A large nationwide study from South Korea revealed that two-thirds of patients with Parkinson disease died within 1 year of the first occurrence of AP.[11] As expected, the severity of aspiration pneumonia is a significant predictor of mortality. However, another predictor of mortality in patients with aspiration pneumonia is the underlying nutritional status. Early assessment of nutritional status is recommended in patients with aspiration pneumonia to predict prognosis and facilitate improved clinical outcomes.[12] ## Complications The most prevalent complications of aspiration pneumonia include lung abscesses and empyema. Clinical reports have been published documenting lung abscesses and empyema in patients with aspiration pneumonia attributed to anaerobes and gram-negative bacteria.[13][14] Prompt antibiotic initiation with appropriate regimens tailored to the patient's risk of drug-resistant infections is recommended to decrease the risk of these complications. Moreover, patients with aspiration pneumonia face risks of malnutrition and dehydration, often linked to the underlying condition predisposing them to aspiration. However, there is an additional risk for malnutrition and dehydration in patients with aspiration pneumonia placed on modified diets, especially if thickened liquids are utilized. Patients may restrict their oral intake to avoid thickened liquids, leading to significantly reduced intake levels (as low as 22% of the daily recommended amount in some cases).[15] Diligent monitoring and community follow-up are imperative to ensure patients maintain sufficient levels of hydration and nutrition on modified diets to prevent these complications. Recurrent hospitalizations and reduced quality of life, particularly among older frail individuals, are common occurrences with aspiration pneumonia. Patients with dysphagia have a higher hospital readmission rate for pneumonia, reaching 6.7 per 100 person-years compared to 3.67 per 100 person-years for those without dysphagia or aspiration history.[15] Multilevel clinical support from nutritionists, speech-language pathologists, physical therapists, and nurses is indispensable to enhance the quality of life for these individuals and decrease their risk of hospital readmissions. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Regular dysphagia screening and testing play a crucial role in identifying and managing swallowing difficulties, thereby mitigating the risk of aspiration pneumonia and improving overall patient outcomes. The European Stroke Organisation and European Society for Swallowing Disorders guidelines advocate for formal dysphagia screening in all patients with acute stroke. This aids in the early diagnosis