of asthma. - The most recent data obtained from the CDC shows prevalence in males at about 6.5% and in females about 9.1%. - Regarding race distribution, the prevalence is 7.8% in the white population, 10.3% in the black community and 6.6% in the Hispanic population. - The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that 235 million people currently have asthma. - The annual incidence of occupational asthma ranges from 12 to 170 cases per million worked. The prevalence is reported at 5% to 15% across many different industries. - Asthma is the most common noncommunicable disease among children. - Most deaths occur in older adults. ## Pathophysiology The pathophysiology of asthma is well recognized and is characterized by variable airflow constriction and airway hyperresponsiveness, thereby causing a contractile response of the airways due to a variety of stimuli. The airway inflammation associated with asthma is felt to be the role of mast cell activation mediated by a variety of cells and cytokines similar to the pathogenesis of allergic rhinitis. Eosinophils are the most specific cells that accumulate in asthma and allergic inflammation and also correlate with disease severity. Variable narrowing of the airway lumen causes variable reductions of airflow which is pathognomonic of asthma. Bronchoconstriction may be due to the direct effects of contractile agonists released from inflammatory cells or reflex neural mechanisms. There is also a subset of patients with asthma who have irreversible airflow obstruction which is believed to be caused by airway remodeling. Structural cells, epithelium, fibroblasts, smooth muscle, and endothelium may contribute to airway remodeling through the combination of mediators and cytokines. There are a variety of genetic, environmental and infectious factors that appear to modulate whether susceptible individuals progress to overt asthma. [2] ## Histopathology The histopathology of asthma is characterized by some structural changes, including epithelial detachment, subepithelial fibrosis, inflammatory cell infiltrate, bronchial smooth muscle hypertrophy, mucous gland hypertrophy, and vascular changes. These changes can be seen in the proximal airways as well as the distal lung and can be seen in endobronchial biopsies of mild, moderate, and severe asthma. [1] ## History and Physical **Pertinent History** - Onset of symptoms - Environmental triggers (inside and outside the home) and risk factors (such as tobacco use or exposures) - Current therapy and previous history specific to their attacks - History of prior hospitalization or intubation for asthma - Occupation (sensitizers and 10% by irritants