from asthma can occur due to chronic inflammation which can lead to damage to the airways. Typically frequent asthma attacks can lead to airway inflammation and eventually medications are unable to penetrate the airway. Death from asthma is rare the risk increases in those patients with underlying lung disease and smokers. [5] ## Consultations Refer patients to an asthma specialist for consultation or co-management following reasons: - When there are difficulties in achieving or maintaining control of asthma - If the patient required more than 2 bursts of oral systemic corticosteroids in 1 year or has an exacerbation requiring hospitalization - If step-4 care or higher is required (step-3 care or higher for children 0 to 4 years of age) - If immunotherapy or omalizumab is considered - When additional testing is necessary [6] ## Deterrence and Patient Education Patients should be educated about asthma concerning the use of medications. They should understand how to take medications and also the differences between quick-acting medications and maintenance medications such as inhaled corticosteroids. Patients should also be encouraged to use an asthma action plan, so they understand when their symptoms are severe, and they need to contact a physician or go to the emergency room. The asthma APGAR (activities, persistent, triggers, asthma medications, response to therapy) tools in primary care practices have been shown to improve rates of asthma control and reduce emergency room and urgent care visits. [7] ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Asthma is considered the most common chronic disease seen in children. It is a significant cause for missing school as well as frequent emergency department and urgent care visits. The use of inhaled corticosteroids has been shown to improve asthma control but adherence is low amongst all populations. In a study performed in Massachusettes between 2012 and 2015, the impact of the school nurse-supervised asthma therapy program on healthcare utilization was reviewed. The children who participated in this study were identified as high risk and had persistent asthma. The study recognized poor adherence to medications by this group of children as well. These children were given their inhaled corticosteroid monitored by the school nurse daily to twice daily. This was a retrospective study where data was analyzed and electronic health records were reviewed to follow asthma-related emergency department and hospital visits both before the study and after the study. Refills of albuterol and prednisone through pharmacy records and