treatment plan. [4] ## Treatment / Management The goal of asthma care is to reduce impairment, which is the frequency and intensity of symptoms and functional limitations, as well as reducing the risk of future asthma attacks, a decline in lung function, or medication side effects. Achieving and maintaining asthma controls involves a multidisciplinary approach that includes appropriate medication, addressing environmental factors that may cause a worsening of symptoms and help patients learn self-management and monitoring skills and to adjust therapy accordingly. The goal of treatment is to stop symptoms by reducing airway inflammation and hyperreactivity. Currently, asthma medications are classified according to their roles in the overall management of asthma quick versus long-term control. All patients should have available a fast-acting bronchodilator for use as needed. If these are being used for more than 2 days per week or more than 2 times a month for nighttime awakenings, then a controller medication should be prescribed. The quick-acting inhalers are the most effective to reverse airway obstruction and provide immediate symptomatic relief. The most widely used drugs are beta-agonists such as albuterol. Achieving long-term control of asthma requires a multifactorial approach including the avoidance of environmental stimuli that can provoke bronchoconstriction and airway inflammation as well as monitoring changes in disease activity and sometimes allergen immunotherapy and drug therapy. Inhaled corticosteroids best help patients achieve well-controlled asthma. They work by suppressing airway inflammation and decreasing bronchial hyperresponsiveness. Asthmatics who smoke have less benefit from inhaled corticosteroids than nonsmokers. **Step-Up Therapy: The Goal of Asthma Control** - Step 1: For intermittent asthma, preferred therapy is a short-acting inhaled beta2 agonist. For persistent asthma, daily medication is recommended. - Step 2: Preferred treatment is a low-dose inhaled corticosteroid. - Step 3: A low dose inhaled corticosteroid plus a long-acting inhaled beta2 agonist is recommended, or a medium-dose inhaled corticosteroid. - Step 4: The preferred treatment is a medium-dose inhaled corticosteroid plus a long-acting beta2 agonist. - Step 5: The preferred treatment is high dose inhaled corticosteroid plus a long-acting beta2 agonist and considering omalizumab for people with allergies. - Step 6: The preferred treatment is high-dose inhaled corticosteroid plus a long-acting beta2 agonist plus an oral corticosteroid; consider omalizumab with people with allergies. For steps 2 to 4, also consider allergy immunotherapy and allergy testing. Leukotriene receptor antagonists, cromolyn sodium, and theophylline can be used as alternative treatments but not preferred agents.