is considered "low-risk," and anticoagulation is not recommended in such cases. If the patient receives a score of 1, it falls in the "low-moderate" risk category; the providers should consider anticoagulant or antiplatelet therapy. If the patient receives a score of greater than 2, they are in the "moderate-high" risk category, and anticoagulation therapy is indicated.[2] Rate or rhythm control should also be given to the patient; medications such as beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, amiodarone, dronedarone, and digoxin are available options. HAS-BLED is also a scoring system that can be used to assess the risk of bleeding for the patient. This is a good indicator of bleeding risk for a patient that is being considered for anticoagulation. Non-pharmacological therapy includes ablation therapy. Pacemaker placement is considered in severe cases resulting in heart failure in atrial fibrillation.[9][10][11] **Current guidelines** 1. In patients with AF and elevated CHA2DS2-VASc score of 2 or more, oral anticoagulation is recommended. 1. Females with the absence of AF risk factors and males with CHA2DS2-VASc of 1 or 0 have a low stroke risk. 1. Non-vitamin K oral anticoagulants (apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, and rivaroxaban) are recommended over warfarin, except for patients with moderate to severe MS with a mechanical heart valve in place. 1. In all patients with AF, the CHA2DS2-VASc score is recommended to assess stroke risk. 1. Obtain renal and liver function before initiating non-vitamin K oral anticoagulants. 1. Aspirin is not recommended in patients with low CHA2DS2-VASc scores. 1. Idarucizumab is recommended for dabigatran reversal if there is an urgent procedure or bleeding. Andexanet alfa is recommended for the reversal of rivaroxaban and apixaban associated bleeding. 1. Percutaneous left atrial appendage occlusion is recommended in AF patients with a risk of stroke who have contraindications to long term anticoagulation. 1. If the duration of AF is more than 48 hours or if the time is unknown, start anticoagulation and maintain INR between 2-3 or commence a factor Xa inhibitor for at least three weeks before and at least four weeks after cardioversion. 1. Catheter ablation is an option in patients with a low ejection fraction. 1. Recommend weight loss in obese patients with AF. ## Differential Diagnosis History and examination play a crucial role in distinguishing various causes of atrial fibrillation. Different presentations on electrocardiography are a cornerstone in establishing the etiology of AF. Differential diagnoses include: 1. Atrial flutter - However, atrial fibrillation