for aerobic and anaerobic organisms from each arm. In the hospital setting, most patients, at a minimum, will require a chest x-ray and urinalysis with culture. A surgical patient may require CT imaging of the location of their surgery to assess for abscess or collection formation, as well as wound cultures for surgical site infections. Likewise, an intubated or patient presenting with pulmonary disease will require sputum cultures. Patients with indwelling venous catheters, hemodialysis catheters, or ports should have their lines removed and tips cultured.[9][10] ## Treatment / Management Bacteremia requires urgent and appropriate antibiotics. Delay in the administration of appropriate antibiotics is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Empiric antibiotics should follow a logical approach based on the patient's history and current disposition. For example, is the infection community or hospital-acquired, what is the patient's recent healthcare exposure, recent medical or surgical treatment, and what is the local antibiotic resistance? Before a Gram stain is finalized, all patients should receive broad-spectrum antibiotics covering gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, which include extended-generation cephalosporins or a beta-lactamase inhibitor. Pseudomonas coverage is applicable for hospital-acquired bacteremia, as well as in a patient with recent health care exposure. Additionally, vancomycin should be added to cover resistant gram-positive organisms, most notably methicillin-resistant resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). When the practitioner obtains the final cultures, antibiotics should be titrated to directed therapy starting with the gram stain, and eventually, antimicrobial susceptibility. There is no optimal duration of treatment. In most cases, antibiotic treatment should continue for seven to 14 days and should always be administered parenterally. Oral agents are recommended when patients have been afebrile for at least 48 hours and are otherwise clinically stable.[11][12][13] ## Differential Diagnosis - Acute prostatitis / abscess - Community-acquired pneumonia (with asplenia) - Deep neck space infection abscess - Empyema - Instrumentation in patients with bacteriuria - Intra- or perinephric abscess - Lung abscess - Peritonitis abscess - Pyelonephritis - Renal calculi - Renal insufficiency - Urinary tract obstruction ## Complications - Meningitis - Endocarditis - Osteomyelitis - Sepsis - Cellulitis - Peritonitis ## Consultations Infectious disease consultation is usually indicated. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes As with most infectious diseases, preventive practice is critical in the outpatient and inpatient setting. All healthcare workers play an important role in the prevention of bacterial infections in the workplace. At the most rudimentary level, basic hand hygiene and the adherence to clean and