patients in the PROCESS[23], ARISE[24], and PROMISE[25] trials. The volume of intravenous fluids to give in early resuscitation is still a point of contention and debate, as half of those patients in the study did not receive 30 ml/kg, and half of those patients required more. The ideal fluid to administer is also a contested point, with a general recommendation for "crystalloid fluids" such as normal saline, Ringer's lactate, or balanced crystalloid solutions from the most recent Surviving Sepsis Campaign guidelines.[8] Recent large trials and reviews on the subject report some benefits with buffered crystalloid solutions (Ringer’s lactate) over normal saline.[29][30] The guidelines for treating and managing sepsis do not reflect these findings. Vasopressors are indicated in septic shock if the condition fails to respond to the intravenous fluid bolus as recommended above. Vasopressors provide additional vascular contraction to assist in maintaining beneficial blood pressure, with a target MAP of greater than 65 mm Hg.[31] The vasopressor choice initially should be norepinephrine, with vasopressin added if norepinephrine after titration dose fails to improve blood pressure by itself. Epinephrine should be used as a second-line agent to norepinephrine. Recommendations at this point are to avoid the use of dopamine except in carefully selected patients. If there is evidence of myocardial dysfunction, recommendations support the addition of a dobutamine infusion to ongoing vasopressor therapy. Vasopressors should be administered through a central venous catheter as soon as the placement is possible.[8] Re-evaluation is critically important to guide the management of these patients after the initial resuscitation period. This typically includes a thorough clinical examination and the concurrent variables of heart rate, blood pressure, urine output, and respiratory rate, among others. There have been multiple attempts at clearly defining these goals for acute resuscitation, and have included, at different times, measuring central venous pressure (CVP), mixed venous oxygen saturation (SvO2), trending lactic acid, stroke volume measurements, mean arterial pressure (MAP), and urine output. CVP measurements have been fraught with imprecision and not found to be useful in predicting whether or not a patient will respond to additional intravenous fluid administration. Mean arterial pressure is the force behind perfusion in the peripheral organs and tissues and should be the goal for both fluid and vasopressor administration. An elevated lactic acid, while not directly a result of tissue perfusion, especially in sepsis, has been directly related to increased mortality. Lactate clearance has also been suggested as