should be performed before lumbar puncture if the patient has a risk of herniation. Risk factors include papilledema on the exam, new onset seizures, focal neurologic deficits, or is immunocompromised. Consider delaying the lumbar puncture if the patient has unstable vital signs, coagulation abnormalities, or has had a recent seizure. Treat with antibiotics empirically if testing is going to be delayed. Blood cultures should be obtained as 53% of patients have concurrent bacteremia. Elevated C-reactive protein or procalcitonin levels would suggest a bacterial rather than viral etiology.[10][11][12] ## Treatment / Management Timely administration of antibiotics is essential. Delays in the administration of 3 to 6 hours are associated with increased mortality. The identified bacteria determine antibiotic selection. Empiric treatment with ceftriaxone and vancomycin should strongly be considered if the diagnosis is going to be delayed. Patients who are immunocompromised or older than 50 should also receive ampicillin. Patients with bacterial meningitis due to head trauma or post-neurosurgical procedure need to be covered for methicillin resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ and aerobic gram-negative organisms. They should receive vancomycin and ceftazidime or cefepime. Acyclovir can also be administered for HSV coverage. Antibiotics can then be narrowed once the culture and sensitivities have resulted. Dexamethasone may increase survival if given at the time of antibiotic administration for _S. pneumoniae_ infections. It has not been shown to improve outcomes for meningitis caused by other bacteria. Patients suspected of having meningococcal meningitis should be placed in droplet precautions until they have received 24 hours of antibiotics. Close contacts should also be treated prophylactically. Ciprofloxacin, rifampin, or ceftriaxone may be used. Close contacts are defined as people within 3 feet of the patient for more than 8 hours during the seven days before and 24 hours after receiving antibiotics. People exposed to the patient's oral secretions during this time should also be treated.[13][14][15] ## Differential Diagnosis - All causes of altered mental status and coma - Brain Abscess - Brain Neoplasms - Central nervous system (CNS) vasculitis - Delirium Tremens (DTs) - Emergent Management of Subarachnoid Hemorrhage - Encephalitis - Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV) in Emergency Medicine - Leptospirosis - Meningeal carcinomatosis - Noninfectious meningitis, including medication-induced meningeal inflammation - Pediatrics, Meningitis and Encephalitis - Stroke - Subdural empyema ## Prognosis The mortality for bacterial meningitis varies from 10-15%. Survival depends on early recognition of acute bacterial meningitis, followed by administration of appropriate antibiotic therapy. Delay in treatment