loss of oxidative phosphorylation and decreased generation of ATP. The sodium pump fails, and potassium is lost with a concurrent influx of sodium and water, causing the cell to swell in size. With worsening hypoxia, there is a progressive loss of glycogen and decreased protein synthesis. As hypoxic injury continues, the cytoskeleton will disperse, and “blebs” will appear. Mitochondria will also exhibit swelling at this stage while the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) remains dilated. If oxygen is restored, a lot of these processes and injuries can be reversed. If hypoxia persists, irreversible injury and cellular necrosis will ensue. Cells at this stage exhibit severe swelling of mitochondria, extensive damage to plasma membranes, and swelling of lysosomes. Cellular death is mainly by necrosis. However, apoptosis also contributes as the mitochondria are believed to leak pro-apoptotic enzymes with swelling. Apoptosis is a pathway of cellular death that is induced by a tightly regulated program that uses its own enzymes to degrade the rest of the cell in the hopes of limiting collateral tissue damage. In sepsis and, more specifically, septic shock, these changes typically are more evident in tissues that are heavily dependent on blood flow and the elimination of cellular by-products, i.e., brain, heart, lungs, kidneys, adrenals, and gastrointestinal (GI) tract. With respect to the kidneys, biopsies from septic patients reveal a wide range of findings with “non-specific morphologic changes,” not acute tubular necrosis, being the most commonly reported finding.[17][18] The lungs are another very commonly affected organ in septic shock as it is known to be somewhat resistant to hypoxic injury. However, in septic shock, changes of diffuse alveolar damage may develop; as a result, notably, findings of interstitial and intra-alveolar edema, inflammation, and fibrin deposition. These findings are also associated with the dreaded complication of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), which will show further fibrin deposition, as a part of these micro-thrombi, in nearly all the vascular territories of the organs named above. The petechial appearance on the skin during DIC is often secondary to the consumption of platelets and clotting factors that are a part of the micro-thrombi. These changes, when viewed in isolation, are reversible; however, once a patient reaches a state where multiple organ systems are involved, the patient usually dies before they have a chance to recover. ## History and Physical The history and physical exam will vary widely depending on where they fall on the continuum