a means of continuing metabolism in the critically ill. Hyperlactatemia in sepsis is the result of multiple metabolic adjustments, not simply tissue hypoperfusion. Conditions that are known to favor lactate production include systemic hypoperfusion necessitating anaerobic metabolism, regional hypoperfusion, and microcirculatory dysfunction. Additionally, increased aerobic glycolysis can produce an excess of pyruvate that overwhelms pyruvate dehydrogenase used to take the pyruvate into the Kreb cycle for aerobic metabolism. With the excess pyruvate present, a portion will be shunted to lactate conversion and accumulate in the cytoplasm prior to being dispersed in the bloodstream. This occurs in white blood cells, which rely on anaerobic metabolism, especially when activated during periods of infection or inflammation, and have been shown to contribute to increased blood levels of lactic acid. This increased production and decreased clearance of lactate results in hyperlactatemia.[15][16] As this disease process progresses, further inflammatory cytokines are released, resulting in effects seen in both cardiac activity and splanchnic vasculature. Further depression of cardiac contractility, in both systolic and diastolic phases, is a result of these circulating inflammatory cytokines. Splanchnic blood flow is also affected and primarily shunted to other organs, especially once hypotension is present. This creates an increased risk for translocation of enteric pathogens and endotoxin across the bowel mucosa and into the systemic circulation, further aggravating the inciting condition. Alternatively, this process has been described in terms of oxygen demands and consumption. Sepsis, at its earliest manifestation, creates an increased need for oxygen locally, accompanied closely by a critical decrease in systemic oxygen delivery, limiting tissue oxygenation as described via various mechanisms above. This is followed by an increase in the systemic oxygen extraction ratio and an accompanying decrease in central venous oxygen saturation (ScvO2) and mixed venous oxygen saturation (SvO2). When the limits for how much oxygen can be extracted from blood are reached, cellular metabolism switches to anaerobic metabolism, further contributing to lactate production, as noted above. The failure to increase the oxygen extraction ratio and thus increase systemic oxygen consumption is secondary to the impairment of microvascular oxygen perfusion as well as mitochondrial dysfunction. This is the basis for following increasing lactate levels or decreasing venous oxygen saturation as a marker for disease severity and prognosis.[14] ## Histopathology The cellular and tissue changes induced by a shock are essentially those also seen in hypoxic injury states. As oxygen tension within the cell decreases, there is a