a goal for early resuscitation, as a decrease of only 10% in the first 6 hours corresponded to an 11% decrease in the likelihood of mortality, as compared to patients who were unable to achieve this.[15][16] However, there is weak evidence of a reduction in mortality when lactate-guided resuscitation is employed over usual care.[8] For compliance with CMS core measures, as noted in the guidelines above, documented reassessment of volume status and tissue perfusion should include vital signs, cardiopulmonary, capillary refill, pulse, and skin findings. The widely held belief that in sepsis tissue, hypoxia was the problem led to liberal transfusions of packed red blood cells to increase oxygen delivery in the early years of sepsis management. This, however, has since been disproven with the transfusion requirements in septic shock trials addressing mortality with a lower threshold transfusion of 7 g/dL versus a 9 g/dL. Targeting a lower transfusion threshold of 7 g/dL in septic patients is the current recommendation unless there are signs of critical coronary disease, myocardial ischemia, or acute hemorrhage.[8][32] Corticosteroids have 2 important implications in severe sepsis and septic shock, namely that they have anti-inflammatory activity and that they magnify the vaso-constricting response to catecholamines. The conflicting support for the routine use of steroids in severe sepsis and septic shock has led to inconsistent recommendations for its use, despite more than 50 years of trials looking at its benefit in septic shock. Recently the CORTICUS and ADRENAL trials focusing on this point have failed to show a direct mortality benefit. However, there was a decreased length of ICU stay and days on vasopressors in survivors.[33][34] The APROCCHSS trial, in contrast, looking at a fludrocortisone and hydrocortisone combination, did show a mortality benefit in septic shock patients without an increase in adverse events.[35] Currently, the recommendations support its use in refractory septic shock that has not responded to intravenous fluids and vasopressor therapy as well a low-dose prolonged course should be continued while the patient is on vasopressor therapy. Hydrocortisone is the preferred corticosteroid because of its mineralocorticoid effects. Mechanical ventilation is an important component of management as the respiratory system, predominantly the lungs, is the most commonly affected organ in severe sepsis and septic shock. In the event, the patient experiences acute lung injury that progresses to ARDS requiring mechanical ventilation, a lung-protective strategy is needed. In the landmark ARDSNet trial, patients who were receiving mechanical