other hand, the presence of anesthetics, aspirin, alcohols, and certain narcotics, and procainamide may falsely increase the LDH result. The LDH test may only show an elevated concentration of one or more types of isozymes. Liver diseases, kidney diseases, muscle injury, trauma, heart attack, certain infectious diseases, pancreatitis, cancer, and anemia are some of the health conditions that can lead to a rise in serum LDH levels. Furthermore, the concentration of LDH varies with age, infants and young children usually have much higher normal levels of LDH levels as compared to older children and adults. Newborns have a normal range of 135 to 750 U/L (units/L), children up to 12 months have 180 to 435 U/L, and above 18 years of age have a normal range of 122 to 222 U/L (as indicated by Mayo Clinic Labs). Besides testing the concentration of LDH in samples, LDH isozyme testing also helps to assess the type, location, and severity of tissue damage. LDH is a tetrameric enzyme made of H and M subunits. The assembly of the enzymes occurs in a defined ratio through a tissue-specific synthesis of subunits, hence providing tissue specificity, i.e., heart-specific LDH (LDH-1) preferentially synthesizes all four H subunits, while liver LDH (LDH-5) is exclusively made of all M-subunits. Similarly, other tissues synthesize the subunits in a specified ratio. LDH isozyme testing identifies the isozymes as LDH 1 to 5 based on the electrophoretic mobility shift. The different subunit composition imparts a difference in the net charges and hence a different migration in an electric field. A good separation pattern of LDH isozymes is obtained in a buffer of pH of 8.6. In a typical LDH isozyme electrophoretic pattern, LDH-1 moves as a fast band, followed by LDH-2, LDH-3, LDH-4, and LDH-5 being the slowest band. The normal serum percentage of LDH-1 (4H) is 30.4 to 36.4%, LDH-2 (3H1M) is 30.4 to 36.4%, LDH-3 (2H2M) is 19.2 to 24.8%, LDH-4 (1H3M) is 9.6 to 15.6%, and LDH-5 (4M) is 5.5 to 12.7%. ## Pathophysiology The quantification of LDH is of clinical interest as a serum concentration of LDH isozymes reflect tissue-specific pathological conditions. Hence, LDH can be used as a marker for diverse tissue injuries owing to its isozyme form, and its ubiquitous presence. Upon tissue damage, the cells release LDH in the bloodstream. Depending upon the type of tissue injury, the enzyme can remain elevated for up