through LDH-5 are translational products of two genes _LDHA_ and _LDHB_ gene [9]. The two genes provide instructions for making the lactate dehydrogenase-A and lactate dehydrogenase-B subunits of the lactate dehydrogenase enzyme. There are five different forms of LDH, each made up of four subunits. Various combinations of the protein products of lactate dehydrogenase-A subunits and lactate dehydrogenase-B subunits produced from a different gene) make up the different forms of the enzyme.[4] In the mammalian system, two more subunits, LDHC and LDHBx, are also included to form LDH tetramer. The _LDHC_ gene encodes the LDHC protein that is specific to the testes, while the _LDHBx_ gene encodes the LDHBx protein specific to the peroxisome.[10] LDHBx is the readthrough form of the LDHB gene. LDHBx is generated by translation of the LDHB mRNA, where the stop codon is read as encoding an amino acid. Consequently, translation proceeds to the next stop codon, which adds seven amino acid residues encoding the peroxisomal targeting signal to the normal LDH-H protein so that LDHBx is imported into the peroxisome.[11] The secondary structure of LDH comprises 40% alpha helices and 23% beta-sheets; this makes LDH as mixed beta-alpha-beta, with parallel beta sheets as the main component of the protein structure.[12] The active site of the enzyme is located in its substrate-binding pocket and contains catalytically important His-193 as well as Asp-168, Arg-171, Thr-246, and Arg-106. His-193 is the active amino acid present in the active site of humans as well as other species of the animal kingdom. All the LDH isozymes are structurally very similar; however, each one has distinct kinetic properties resulting from the differences in the charged amino acids flanking the active site [2][13]. The two different subunits of LDH (the M subunit and H subunit of LDH) both maintain the same active site structure and amino acids that participate in the reaction. In the tertiary structure, the alanine of the M-chain is replaced with glutamine in the H-chain. Alanine is a nonpolar and small molecular weight amino acid, while glutamine is a positively charged amino acid. This chemistry provides different biochemical properties to the two subunits. Hence, the H subunit can bind faster but has fivefold reduced catalytic activity as compared to the M-subunit. LDHA subunit carries a net charge of -6 and exhibits a higher affinity towards pyruvate, thus converting pyruvate to lactate and NADH to NAD+. On the other hand,