to anaerobic respiration. LDH is modulated by three types of regulations, namely, allosteric modulation, substrate-level regulation, and transcriptional regulation. The relative availability and concentration of substrates regulate the activity of LDH. The enzyme becomes more active during extreme muscular activity when there is an increase in substrates. The demand for ATP compared to aerobic ATP supply causes the accumulation of ADP, AMP, and Pi. Glycolytic flux leads to the production of pyruvate that exceeds the metabolic capacity of pyruvate dehydrogenase and other shuttle enzymes that metabolize pyruvate. This process channelizes the flux of pyruvate and NAD+ through LDH, subsequently generating lactate and NADH.[20] In conditions of increased NADH/NAD+ ratio, as usually happens in individuals who drink alcoholic beverages, high concentrations of ethanol lead to the production of high concentrations of lactate and NADH, and thus the depletion of NAD+. This reaction subsequently leads to pyruvate conversion to lactate linked to the regeneration of NAD+. Thus, the high NADH/NAD+ ratio shifts the LDH equilibrium towards lactate.[20] ## Testing LDH assays can measure the amount of LDH present in the serum that leaks from the tissues when damaged. The catalytic property of LDH leading to reversible oxidation of L-lactate to pyruvate, mediated by the hydrogen acceptor, NAD+, is harnessed as a basis of the measurement of LDH activity. Clinical diagnostic laboratories assess the rate of production of NADH that changes the optical density of the sample measured spectrophotometrically at 340 nm. The conversion of pyruvate to lactate or reverse reaction of oxidation of L-lactate to pyruvate can be monitored spectrophotometrically. LDH activity is measurable in various samples such as plasma, serum, tissue, cells, and in the culture medium for research purposes. Care is required when handling serum and plasma samples because hemolysis can cause an artefactual increase in the enzyme levels due to its release from ruptured erythrocytes. Typically, the normal range of LDH is between 140 to 280 U/L. However, the clinical interpretation depends upon the signs and symptoms of the patient. The serum usually has a higher level of LDH as compared with plasma because of LDH release during clotting. The LDH activity also increases during strenuous exercise to generate lactic acid under normal physiological conditions.[21] LDH test is affected by drugs and medications, which could interfere with accurate testing for LDH. The presence of high concentrations of vitamin C may lead to a falsely low LDH result. On the