the liver to peripheral tissue.[7] ## Pathophysiology Fat necrosis can generally result from non-enzymatic and enzymatic cellular processes. During traumatic events, such as physical injury in breast tissue, non-enzymatic fat necrosis takes place.[8] In acute pancreatitis, saponification of peripancreatic fat occurs. This is due to the damage to fat cells causing the release of lipase, triglyceride breakdown, and the release of fatty acids. These fatty acids are charged negatively, and once released in the bloodstream, they bind to positively charged calcium ions. This process of salt formation between negatively charged fatty acids and positively charged calcium ions is called saponification.[9] Histologically, saponified cells appear as dead fat cells outlining the tissue, which do not contain peripheral nuclei. The saponification of the fatty acid and calcium ion combined on hematoxylin and eosin staining appears dark blue.[10] ## Clinical Significance High levels of serum lipase may be indicative of pancreatitis. In the case of acute pancreatitis, diagnosis is based on the lab results with two of the three criteria. The criteria used for diagnosis include acute epigastric pain radiating to the back, increased serum amylase, or increased lipase levels, which are up to three times the upper limit of normal serum lipase levels. The latter is a more specific diagnostic marker than amylase or imaging with CT or MRI. Acute pancreatitis is due to autodigestion of the pancreas by pancreatic enzymes, causing surrounding edema in the pancreas. The common causes of this pathology include excessive ethanol use, gallstones, trauma, mumps, steroids, autoimmune disease, hypertriglyceridemia with levels above 1000 mg/dL, hypercalcemia, ERCP, scorpion sting, and drugs such as nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, protease inhibitors, and sulfa drugs. Acute pancreatitis can lead to complications including pseudocyst, in which the pancreatic lining is composed of granulation tissue rather than epithelium, necrosis, abscess, infection, hemorrhage, hypocalcemia due to precipitation of calcium soaps, shock, and organ failures such as acute respiratory distress syndrome and renal failure.[11] Elevated serum levels of lipase and amylase may or may not be present in chronic pancreatitis, in contrast to acute pancreatitis, where serum lipase is almost always elevated. Chronic pancreatitis is due to chronic inflammation, calcification, and atrophy of the pancreas. The primary causes of chronic pancreatitis include chronic alcohol abuse in adults and genetic predispositions such as cystic fibrosis in children. The complications of chronic pancreatitis include deficiency of pancreatic enzymes and the formation of pseudocysts. Pancreatic insufficiency usually occurs