LDHB has a net charge of +1 and demonstrates a higher affinity towards lactate, resulting in a preferential conversion of lactate to pyruvate and NAD+ to NADH.[4] LDH is inherent in maintaining homeostasis when there is a lack of oxygen. Oxygen levels in the muscle tissues drop quickly upon heavy exercise. Since oxygen is typically the final electron acceptor of the electron transport chain (ETC), the chain halts along with ATP synthase. Nonetheless, muscle cells continue to function by creating ATP through NAD+. LDH produces lactic acid as an end product through a fermentation reaction. In the process, LDH removes electrons from NADH and makes NAD+, which is channelized in the glycolysis pathway to create ATP.[1] Though this process creates less ATP as compared to the ETC, it allows the cell to carry out its physiological and biochemical functions in the absence of oxygen. ## Function Lactate Dehydrogenase is one of the H transfer (oxidoreductase) enzymes, which catalyzes the reversible conversion of pyruvate to lactate using NADH. Basically, the enzyme is involved in the anaerobic metabolism of glucose when oxygen is absent or in limited supply.[14] - Pyruvate + NADH + H+ ­--> Lactate + NAD+ When cells become exposed to anaerobic or hypoxic conditions, the production of ATP by oxidative phosphorylation becomes disrupted. This process demands cells to produce energy by alternate metabolism. Consequently, LDH is upregulated in such conditions to cater to the need for energy production. However, lactate produced during the anaerobic conversion of glucose meets a dead end in metabolism. It cannot undergo further metabolism in any tissue except the liver. Hence, lactate is released in the blood and transported to the liver, where LDH performs the reverse reaction of converting lactate to pyruvate through the Cori cycle.[6] During exercise, when muscles exhaust the oxygen, pyruvate gets catalyzed into lactic acid by the lactate dehydrogenase enzyme. In erythrocytes, pyruvate is not further metabolized due to the absence of mitochondria but remains within the cytoplasm, finally converting to lactate. In this reaction, NADH oxidizes to NAD+. The availability of high intracellular concentrations of NAD is necessary to carry out the preparatory phase of glycolysis. The net ATP production of anaerobic glycolysis is only 2 ATP per glucose molecule as compared to oxidative phosphorylation, which produces 36 ATP per glucose molecule. LDH can also catalyze the dehydrogenation of 2-hydroxybutyrate, but it is the less preferred substrate for LDH