to 7 days in the bloodstream. The elevated LDH in serum as a result of organ destruction occurs due to significant cell death that results in loss of cytoplasm. Causes of tissue damage can be diseases such as acute myocardial infarction, anemia, pulmonary embolism, hepatitis, acute renal failure, etc.[22] LDH can be used as a satisfactory marker for the staging of a disease (S-classification), monitor prognosis or response to treatment, and evaluate body fluids other than blood. The decrease in LDH levels during treatment is indicative of a better prognosis and/or good response to treatment in conditions such as acute myocardial infarction or liver injury. In acute myocardial infarction, LDH-1 isozyme remains elevated from the second day up to the 4th day. Similarly, in liver injury, LDH-5 is elevated. A significant increase in LDH-5 higher than LDH-4 is a marker of hepatocellular injuries such as hepatitis or cirrhosis. LDH increases during effusion in serous body fluids such as pericardial and peritoneal fluids. Hence, it serves to characterize effusion. In cerebrospinal fluid, LDH increases in bacterial meningitis, while it is observed to be normal in viral meningitis. The ratio of fluid LDH compared to the upper limit of normal serum LDH (> 0.6) indicates an inflammatory process, and hence exudate.[23] There is a marked increase in LDH during intracranial hemorrhage. More than 40 U/L increase above the normal levels is observed in the central nervous system lymphoma, leukemia, and metastatic carcinoma. Elevated levels of more than one isoenzyme may be indicative of more than one cause of tissue damage, e.g., in conditions where pneumonia may also be associated with a heart attack. Very levels of LDH appear to correlate with severe disease or multiple organ failure. LDH is the only serum biomarker useful for assessing metastatic melanomas.[24] In malignancy, the growth of tumor cells consumes oxygen more than the supply; thus, hypoxia is quite common. The growing tumors undergo LDH mediated energy production to fulfill the demand for fast cellular growth.[25] Hence, LDH is an established marker of metastases, especially in the liver. It is also a crucial single prognostic factor since patients with high LDH have reduced survival rates. LDH levels serve to predict incidences of metastasis in uveal melanoma.[26] LDH has a good correlation with tyrosine kinase expression in tumors.[27] This enzyme also constitutes a potential therapeutic target for diseases such as malaria and cancer. The LDH isoform expressed