CN X (cough reflex): Loss of cough reflex is confirmed after tracheal suctioning without reaction.[19] ## Evaluation Before deciding to proceed with the diagnosis of brain death, several conditions must be evaluated and met: - Evidence of an etiology of coma should be known. Confounding conditions should be excluded, including severe metabolic, endocrinologic, and acid-base derangements.[16][17] - If a drug intoxication is suspected or if recent neuromuscular blocking agents have been administered, then five half-lives of drug clearance should be waited, with adjustment to renal and hepatic functions. - The core temperature must be >36 °C. - Systolic blood pressure (SBP) >100 mm Hg. Vasopressors may be administered if necessary. - Neurologic examination (ie, brainstem reflexes): in most states in the United States, 1 attending physician examination is sufficient; however, some states require 2 physicians. If the above conditions are present and there is an identified cause of coma and complete lack of brainstem reflex, you may proceed with apnea testing. Apnea testing should be reserved for last and only once the diagnosis of brain death is reasonably determined since elevating partial pressure carbon dioxide in arterial blood (PaCO2) increases ICP and could precipitate cerebral herniation. Apnea testing is performed using the following procedure as recommended by the AAN. - Vasopressors should be adjusted to maintain a SBP ≥100 mm Hg. - Preoxygenation is given for at least 10 minutes with a 100% FiO2 to a PaO2 >200 mm Hg. - Reduce ventilator frequency to 10 breaths per minute. - Reduce positive end-expiratory pressure to 5 cm H2O. - If the SpO2 remains >95%, obtain baseline blood gas. - Disconnect the patient from the ventilator and preserve oxygenation with oxygen delivered through insufflation tubing given at 100% FiO2 at 6 L per minute near the level of the carina through the endotracheal tube. - Look for respiratory movements for 8 to 10 minutes. - Repeat blood gas at approximately 8 minutes if no respiratory drive is observed. - If no respiratory movements are observed, and PaCO2 >60 mm Hg or 20 mm Hg increase in PaCO2 over baseline (such as in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), the apnea test result is positive. If the above list is completed, and coma, the absence of brainstem reflexes, and a positive apnea test are present, the diagnosis of brain death can be made. This procedure is validated and supported by several professional organizations. The