responsive state, some brain functions are maintained, resulting in a chance of recovery, even occasionally after prolonged periods, especially in patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI). ## Etiology Brain death occurs as a result of an acute catastrophic brain injury. Abrupt loss of cerebral perfusion occurs if a concomitant elevation of intracranial pressure exceeds the mean arterial pressure. The formula is as follows: cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) = mean arterial pressure (MAP) - intracranial pressure (ICP). This process was studied by monitoring brain tissue oxygenation in patients with brain death and can occur via 2 different mechanisms: - Intracranial causes: In adults, the predominant intracranial injuries leading to brain death are traumatic brain injuries (TBI) and subarachnoid hemorrhage. These injuries elevate intracranial pressure (ICP), impair cerebral perfusion, and reduce brain tissue oxygenation, leading to neuronal damage. In pediatric cases, nonaccidental trauma is a common cause, contributing to increased ICP and subsequent brain injury.[8][9] - Extracranial causes: In both adults and children, a significant extracranial cause of brain death is cardiopulmonary arrest with delayed or inadequate resuscitation.[10] This leads to prolonged cessation of cerebral blood flow, resulting in anoxia, cellular membrane pump failure, disturbed osmoregulation, and severe brain edema. The increased ICP within the confined space of the skull further compromises cerebral perfusion, exacerbating neuronal injury. ## Epidemiology The most common processes leading to brain death, in order of frequency, are cardiopulmonary arrest, TBI, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and intracerebral hemorrhage. Among extracranial causes, patients who experience cardiopulmonary arrest show a progression to brain death in 8.9% of cases post-resuscitation. For those presenting with TBI, the rate of progression to brain death ranges from 2.8% to 6.1%. Regarding intracranial etiologies, patients with a subarachnoid hemorrhage progress to brain death in 8.5% to 10.7% of cases, while those with intracerebral hemorrhage progress at a rate of 6.1% to 9.6%.[11][12] Notably, by definition, brain death is associated with a 100% mortality rate. ## Pathophysiology The physiology of brain death is similar regardless of the etiology. Inadequate tissue oxygenation leads to a progressive cascade of further edema, increasing intracranial pressure (ICP), a further decrease in cerebral perfusion and eventual herniation, or complete cessation of blood flow and aseptic necrosis of brain tissue. In anoxic brain injuries, inadequate cardiopulmonary resuscitation following a cardiopulmonary arrest, tissue hypoxia leads to the release of cytotoxic material that leads to progressive cerebral edema and eventually the cascade described above. For TBIs