or other intracranial injuries, increasing ICP leads to a decrease in CPP and prevents adequate oxygenation of neuronal tissues. This situation will result in further injury, edema, and, eventually, the process initially described above.[3][12] ## Histopathology Microscopic evaluation of postmortem brain-dead patients reveals varying degrees of neuronal ischemic changes. The hemispheric lobes and basal ganglia are the most common areas to experience severe ischemic change, followed by the pons, medulla oblongata, midbrain, and thalamus, respectively. Autolysis of the cerebellum can also be appreciated in many autopsies.[13] ## History and Physical Once the decision to proceed with the brain death determination has been made, three conditions must be present: coma, the absence of brainstem reflexes, and apnea. Coma should be evaluated by ensuring a lack of responsiveness to noxious stimuli; no eye or motor reflex should be present in response to stimuli. Spinal-mediated reflex movements, including muscle stretch reflexes, may be compatible with brain death.[14] Additionally, the cause of the coma should be identified by neuroimaging, history, and physical examination or laboratory testing. The following cranial nerve (CN) and brainstem reflexes should be tested in the physical examination of a patient eligible for brain death evaluation.[15] They all must be absent for a patient to be diagnosed as brain dead: - CN II and III (pupillary light reflex): Pupils should be fixed, mid-size/dilated (4-9 mm), and not reactive to light. A magnifying glass or pupillometer can be used to evaluate further if the results are equivocal.[16] - CN III, VI, VIII (oculovestibular reflex): The oculovestibular reflex can be tested using the oculocephalic reflex or caloric testing. When the oculocephalic reflex is absent, the eyes will turn in the same direction in which the head is turning (Doll's eyes). Testing for the oculocephalic reflex should only be performed in a patient with a stable cervical spine. Cold caloric testing may be performed by irrigation of one ear with 50 to 60 mL of ice water. An absent oculovestibular reflex is indicated by a lack of movement of the eyes towards the irrigated side within 1 minute. The contralateral ear should be tested after 5 minutes.[17] - CN V and VII (corneal reflex): Loss of corneal reflex is determined by using a cotton swab or drops of water/normal saline.[18] - CN IX (gag reflex): Loss of gag reflex is confirmed after stimulation of bilateral posterior pharyngeal membranes without elevation of the palate. -