lung using bronchial blocker, however, the therapeutic yield is poor. **Diseases for Which Bronchoscopy Is Not the Optimal Diagnostic or Therapeutic Tool** There are diseases in which bronchoscopy is commonly done, however, the diagnostic and therapeutic yield is poor. Deshwal et al have grouped these into the following categories[7] _1. Infectious causes:_ - Cystic fibrosis - Smear negative pulmonary tuberculosis _2. Hemoptysis_ _3. Radiological findings_ - Atelectasis in a patient on mechanical ventilation - fibrosing mediastinitis - Pleural effusion _4. Mediastinal lymphadenopathy from the following causes_ - Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis - Stage 1 Sarcoidosis - Congestive lymphadenopathy - Calcified lymphadenopathy - Lymphoma - COPD exacerbation and lymphadenopathy ## Contraindications Bronchoscopy should not be performed when risks of the procedure outweigh the benefits. Risk-benefit assessment is undertaken on a case-by-case basis by the treating pulmonologist. Contraindications may include, but not limited to, severe baseline hypoxia, hemodynamic instability, recent myocardial infarction, severe hypoxia, uncooperative patient, severe bleeding disorder or an inexperienced operator. ## Equipment The flexible bronchoscope consisting of fiber optic bundles, camera, and working channel, is connected to a light source and image processor, which displays the transmitted images on a monitor. The bronchoscope can be steered to view the airways by the use of a lever at the proximal end of the bronchoscope. Flexible bronchoscopes come in different sizes and varying working channel diameters. This variety allows for appropriate selection of bronchoscope for a given clinical scenario. Standard diagnostic tools such as biopsy forceps, an aspiration needle, and bronchial brush are used to obtain tissue samples. Therapeutic tools such as balloons, laser fiber argon plasma coagulation catheter and ,electrocautery and cryotherapy probes can also be used through a flexible bronchoscope. Advances in bronchoscopy include endobronchial ultrasound, radial probe ultrasound, confocal endomicroscopy, narrow band imaging, autofluorescence, and electromagnetic navigational bronchoscopy. ## Preparation Informed consent should be obtained from the patient or the patient’s health care power of attorney. A focused history and physical examination should be obtained to ensure the procedure is clinically indicated and to evaluate for potential contraindications. The patient should fast (nothing by mouth) for six to eight hours before the procedure. Hemodynamic monitoring, pulse oximetry, and intravenous access should be assured before the start of the procedure. Patient’s medication list and allergies, and laboratory results should always be checked. An ECG may be performed if clinically indicated. A ‘time out’ is performed at the start of the