pay enough attention to the physiological indicators of adequate fluid resuscitation, especially urine output, a phenomenon known as "fluid creep" can occur. This refers to the excessive administration of fluids to burn patients beyond what is necessary for their clinical condition. This can cause excessive tissue and pulmonary edema, further complicating the patient's condition. Pulmonary edema can lead to breathing difficulties and may require tracheal intubation or cause pneumonia. Fluid creep can also exacerbate airway edema, resulting in the need for intubation. Typically, fluid creep occurs due to a miscalculation of fluid resuscitation volumes in the first 24 hours after an initial burn. Clinicians may fail to consider the multiple intravenous medications a patient may receive, such as antibiotics, analgesics, and sedatives, which should be included when considering fluid resuscitation. The most crucial objective finding to taper fluid replacement is urine output, which can result in fluid creep when not considered. The role of colloids has not yet been defined but could be considered an adjunct therapy to prevent hypervolemia.[2] The most common formula for estimating the amount of fluid resuscitation needed for a patient is the Parkland formula. The Parkland formula estimates the amount of fluid to be administered over the first 24 hours, with half of the calculated volume recommended to be administered over the first 8 hours. The patient's percentage of TBSA that is burned is expressed as a whole number.[1] Parkland Formula: 4 mL x kg x percentage of TBSA burned Example: A 75 kg male has a burn comprising 30% TBSA 1. Calculate the total amount of lactated Ringer solution to give in the first 24 hours - 4 mL x 75 kg x 30 = 9,000 mL for the first 24 hours 1. Calculate the amount of fluid to give in the first 8 hours - Half of the total volume should be administered in the first 24 hours - 9,000 mL /2 = 4,500 mL of lactated Ringer solution in the first 8 hours 1. Administer the remaining amount of fluid in the last 16 hours - 4,500 mL in the last 16 hours **Estimation of TBSA** The Wallace Rule of Nines is a standard method to estimate the TBSA of the burn. The Rule of Nines is valued for its simplicity and practicality in clinical scenarios. For more minor burns, clinical providers may use the Rule of Palms, which involves estimating the