- The ideal anesthetic approach for patients with significant supraglottic injuries is to maximize local anesthetic usage and minimize general anesthetics with a fiberoptic approach. This allows ample time to investigate and then navigate a difficult airway while maintaining spontaneous patient respiration, thus reducing the risk of patient harm and manipulation of the airway.[1][6] 1. Subglottic - Inhalation of noxious chemicals and irritants often causes injury below the glottis. This can lead to direct damage and inflammation, resulting in airway mucosal hyperemia, potential bronchospasm, and mucosal sloughing. Consequently, mucociliary escalator function may be inhibited, leading to a buildup of bacteria and mucosal debris, increasing the risk of pneumonia in the days following the injury. Inflammatory processes can also inhibit hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction, leading to right-to-left shunting of blood and hypoxia. Alveolar collapse may occur due to a loss of surfactant production or plugging by debris. Intermittent bronchospasm and airway edema may further limit oxygenation by inhibiting oxygen delivery to the alveoli. These findings may be evident in a patient on a ventilator with a prolonged expiratory phase and elevated peak inspiratory pressures. - Cast formation due to mucus sloughing can also obstruct the already limited space in the airways. Bronchoscopy can be utilized intraoperatively to remove casts and improve airway pressures and oxygenation. Widespread cast formation in airways redistributes tidal volumes to unobstructed airways resulting in excessive pulmonary pressures to healthy lung tissue, propagating barotrauma. - This barotrauma can result in acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and pneumothorax. ARDS occurs within a week of inciting events and cannot be explained by congestive heart failure or hypervolemia. ARDS can be further classified as PaO2/FiO2 ratios; mild ARDS (200-300 PaO2/FiO2), moderate ARDS (100-200 PaO2/FiO2), and severe ARDS (\<100 PaO2/FiO2). The primary means of diagnosis of the subglottic injury is clinical but can be supplemented by bronchoscopy. Subglottic inhalation injuries become significant to anesthesiologists due to the necessity of lung-protective ventilation strategies such as low tidal volume (4-6 mL/kg) and properly titrated positive end-expiratory pressures to limit barotrauma.[1][6][7] 1. Systemic - Inhalation injuries can have systemic effects, causing hypoxia, acidosis, and systemic inflammation, resulting in pulmonary edema. Tissues can be directly damaged by carbon monoxide and cyanide, which are soluble in blood and can inhibit oxygenation. Intraoperative checks can be performed to monitor these systemic effects through arterial blood gas and laboratory studies when necessary. - Carbon monoxide can hinder hemoglobin's ability to