Wounds quickly become colonized with gram-positive organisms like _Staphylococcus aureus_ and _Staphylococcus epidermis_. Over several days, intestinal microbes such as _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_ and _Escherichia coli_ colonize the wounds. Systemic antibiotic therapy is not necessarily warranted for these microbe colonizations perioperatively, although thorough wound cleansing with soap, water, normal saline, and/or chlorhexidine is advisable. Topical antibiotic therapy should be suitable for the perioperative period in the early phases of a burn. A conversation between the surgeon and anesthesiologist can minimize the overuse of antibiotics in this subset of patients.[18][19][20] ## Clinical Significance Anesthesia for patients with burns is a challenging subspecialty that requires a cautious approach and an understanding of the pathophysiology of burns to optimize clinical outcomes. Understanding the airway difficulties one could encounter when managing severe head and neck burns is essential to prevent the dreaded "can't ventilate, can't intubate" scenario. The most conservative approach involves just enough anesthetic to make the patient comfortable while maintaining spontaneous ventilation and performing fiberoptic intubation. Understanding the pathophysiology of burns is essential to anticipate hemodynamic changes in burn patients and how to adequately fluid resuscitate the patient intraoperatively before transferring to an intensive care setting. Intraoperative intervention related to the thermoregulatory changes in burn patients undergoing anesthesia can help to prevent wound infection, impaired coagulation, and perioperative shivering. Anesthesiologists play a critical role in the perioperative care of burn patients, and a better understanding of the hazards in treating patients with burns patients can reduce perioperative morbidity and mortality. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Approximately 500,000 people present to the emergency department each year with a burn, but most of these patients do not require critical care.[1] When critical care is required, minutes count as a difficult airway can quickly advance to a "can't ventilate, can't intubate" situation with the swelling that occurs during the hours after a severe burn injury. The anesthesiologist can play an important role in managing these cases with their vast knowledge of physiology, pharmacology, airway management skills, and critical care skills. However, it is only through effective communication and coordination among all patient's interprofessional care team members that the patient can have the best chance at a favorable outcome. Severely burned patients are a complex population that requires a multidisciplinary approach to their medical care. This population of patients can have multifaceted problems, including complicated airways, smoke inhalation injuries, and a unique approach to hemodynamic optimization considering