ligament at its midpoint, and an imaginary line joining the bony landmarks of the iliac crest and pubic symphysis defines the path of the inguinal ligament. Placing a metal clip at the proposed puncture site and performing a quick fluoro exam to confirm the relationship to the femoral head can improve the accuracy of the puncture site. Some centers routinely acquire femoral access under ultrasound guidance.[2] This has been shown to decrease the risk of complications by 49% in one published series. It is essential to access the femoral artery at the appropriate site as adequate hemostasis can be achieved by applying manual compression over the artery against the femoral head. Higher puncture sites will increase the risk of retroperitoneal bleed, and lower puncture sites will increase the risk of pseudoaneurysm formation. Optimizing vascular access using fluoroscopy or ultrasound to visualize the anatomical landmarks and accessing the artery using lower profile catheters, including micropuncture sheaths, can minimize the risk of access site complications. When using the hand/wrist, the common site of access is the radial artery, even though the ulnar artery and brachial artery are also used in some situations.[3] The ideal place to access the radial artery is 2 cm proximal to the radial styloid. Before accessing the radial artery, an Allen test or Barbeau test is performed to confirm adequate collateral circulation to the palm. Allen test is performed by compressing both the radial and ulnar arteries until the palm blanches, and then the ulnar artery is released. The blush response in the hand is noted, and if the color in the palm returns before 10 seconds, the blood supply to the hand via the ulnar artery and palmar arch is considered satisfactory. Barbeau test removes the subjectivity of the Allen test, and a pulse oximeter is placed on the ipsilateral thumb. Similar to the Allen test, compression of both the arteries is performed until the pulse oximetry trace is blunted. The test is considered normal if the pulse oximetry tracing returns to normal within 10 seconds of releasing the pressure on the ulnar artery. **Transradial versus Transfemoral Approaches** Since its first description in 1989, a transradial approach for coronary angiography has been increasing compared to the transfemoral approach. Several randomized controlled trials and meta-analyses have demonstrated reduced mortality, decreased major bleeding, access site complications, reduced length of stay, and comparable stroke rates using a transradial approach.[4] The