ventricle during inspiration due to increased venous return to the right side of the heart. This further decreases the left ventricle space, leading to decreased left ventricular preload and stroke volume. The challenge with making the diagnosis of tamponade with clinical signs alone is difficult since they are neither sensitive nor specific.[5][6] The jugular vein waveform in cardiac tamponade shows steep X and Y descents, known as Friedrich sign. ## Evaluation Evaluation of patients who are suspected of having pericarditis should begin with an electrocardiogram. Patients with pericarditis occasionally will have typical ECG changes that evolve through four stages. In stage I, patients develop diffuse concave up ST-segment elevation. This is often accompanied by PR-segment elevation in lead AVR as well. Stage II occurs within the first week and shows normalization of ST and PR segment changes, while stage III and stage IV are characterized by widespread T-wave inversions, followed by T-wave normalization. Laboratory studies may be helpful when working up pericarditis. A complete blood cell count may show a leukocytosis. A basic metabolic profile may demonstrate elevated renal function tests supporting uremia as the cause of pericarditis or pericardial effusion. The sedimentation rate and CRP are inflammatory markers that may help diagnose or track the progression of these conditions. Once a diagnosis of pericarditis is made or there is a concern for cardiac tamponade, a bedside echocardiogram should be performed to evaluate the extent of the effusion and look for signs of tamponade. Evidence on echocardiogram supporting tamponade would include right ventricular collapse or bowing of the intraventricular septum. If myocarditis is of concern, computed tomography or cardiovascular magnetic MRI should be done. ## Treatment / Management Acute pericarditis often responds to treating the underlying cause. High-dose NSAIDs, with or without colchicine, tapered down over weeks is the first-line treatment. High-dose aspirin (ASA) should be used in the post-myocardial infarction Dressler syndrome. The response is often assessed clinically based on symptom relief. Corticosteroids are not recommended as first-line therapy in most patients as they can increase the risk of recurrent pericarditis. For patients on the corticosteroid for recurrent pericarditis, steroid-sparing immunosuppressive agents (azathioprine or intravenous immunoglobulin) may be considered.[7] The treatment of cardiac tamponade is pericardiocentesis. During this procedure, a needle is advanced through the chest wall into the pericardium. The procedure may be done blindly or with guidance from ultrasonography or fluoroscopy. Hemodynamically unstable patients warrant the use