includes a significant history of chronic alcohol use On physical examination, patients present with non-specific signs of congestive heart failure such as anorexia, generalized cachexia, muscular atrophy, weakness, peripheral edema, third spacing, hepatomegaly, and jugular venous distention. ACM can also cause tachyarrhythmia (most common is atrial fibrillation). Apical impulse can be displaced causing a down and out apex. S3 gallop sound along with apical pansystolic murmur due to mitral regurgitation is often heard. Other etiologies associated with chronic alcohol use may be associated with it and patients may also show signs of liver disease, folate deficiency, increase the risk for bleeding, malnutrition, peripheral neuropathy, and neurological conditions such as Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome. ## Evaluation The diagnosis of alcoholic cardiomyopathy is non-specific. The key to diagnosis is a personal history of chronic heavy alcohol use and the absence of other etiologies. In patients exhibiting chronic alcohol use, other causes of dilated cardiomyopathy need workup. Investigative work up such as mean corpuscular volume (MCV), gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase (GGT), elevated transaminases (AST, ALT) and elevated INR usually are seen in liver injury can be helpful as supportive evidence of alcohol use.[14][15]. Other supportive workups can include: Electrocardiography: Many changes can be observed including premature atrial or ventricular contractions, supraventricular tachycardias, atrioventricular blocks, bundle branch blocks, QT prolongation, non-specific ST and T wave changes and abnormal Q waves. Chest X-Ray: Enlarged cardiac silhouette, pulmonary vascular congestion, and pleural effusion Alcoholic cardiomyopathy can be diagnosed by the following criteria - Dilated cardiomyopathy is seen on 2D echocardiography - LV end-diastolic dimension greater than 2 standard deviations above normal.Left ventricle ejection fraction less than 50%.Exclusion of hypertensive, valvular and ischemic heart diseases. Hence patients with suspected alcoholic cardiomyopathy should undergo coronary angiogram along with echocardiography. ## Treatment / Management Treatment for alcoholic cardiomyopathy is directed towards source control. The mainstay for treatment is complete abstinence from alcohol. Management should include providing patient resources and counseling. Symptomatic management for patients with secondary heart failure and manage associated complications is warranted. Some studies have suggested that even moderation of alcohol consumption similar outcomes as compared to abstinence. Pharmacologic therapy should include goal-directed heart failure therapy as used in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy with reduced ejection fraction. This includes a combination of beta-blockers, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, diuretics, aldosterone receptor antagonist and angiotensin blocker-neprilysin inhibitor (if LVEF is less than or equal to 40%). The use of carvedilol, trimetazidine with other conventional heart