skin). Structures closest to the probe appear at the top of the screen, and structures further away appear towards the bottom of the screen, so in this view, the top of the screen is both anterior and inferior, and the bottom of the screen is more posterior and superior. For this reason, the left lobe of the liver is often visualized at the top of the screen, followed by the right atrium and right ventricle, and finally, the left atrium and left ventricle near the bottom of the screen. Adjust the depth to see the entire heart and interrogate for a pericardial effusion. Pericardial effusions are anechoic (black), and usually, encircle the heart when clinically significant. This view is often easy to obtain in thin patients, as well as patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. It is more difficult in obese patients. Rotating the probe clockwise 90 degrees (so the indicator is pointing cephalad) allows visualization of the inferior vena cava emptying into the right atrium. **Parasternal Long Axis** The phased array probe is placed just to the anatomic left of the sternum at the four intercostal spaces, with the probe's handle perpendicular to the chest wall, an indicator of the patient’s right shoulder. In this view, the footprint of the probe is aligned with the long axis of the patient’s heart. The chamber closest to the footprint at the top of the screen (anterior aspect of the patient) is the right ventricle. The additional chambers include the left atrium, left ventricle, and aortic outflow tract. Posterior to the left atrium and left ventricle at the bottom of the screen is a cross-section of the descending thoracic aorta. This view helps confirm the presence of a pericardial effusion, evaluating the aortic outflow tract and assessing the left ventricle function. In this view, a circumferential pericardial effusion should track anterior to the descending thoracic aorta (whereas a left pleural effusion will track posterior to the descending thoracic aorta). A dilated aortic outflow tract greater than 4 cm measured from leading edge to leading edge, especially in pericardial effusion, may indicate a type A aortic dissection in the appropriate clinical context. The left ventricular function can be assessed by how well the left ventricle myocardium comes together, where a fractional shortening [(left ventricle end-diastolic diameter – left ventricle end-systolic diameter)/left ventricle end-diastolic diameter] of about 30% to 45% correlates with a good