Atrial fibrillation, specifically non-valvular atrial fibrillation, is believed to be the most prevalent cause of cardioembolic strokes.[3] Considered the most frequently encountered sustained arrhythmia, it occurs in approximately 5% of people aged 65 years and above. In western populations, most cases are believed to occur secondary to ischemic or hypertensive heart disease. Other contributing factors include hyperthyroidism and heavy alcohol consumption. The contribution of valvular heart disease, particularly the involvement of the mitral valve, is on the decline in terms of the number of cases. However, concerning relative risk, patients with valvular atrial fibrillation have a 17-fold increased risk of cardioembolic stroke, as opposed to the 2-7 fold increased risk in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation.[4] The CHADS2 risk stratification tool is often used to predict the stroke risk in patients with atrial fibrillation - Sick sinus syndrome, also known as a bradycardia-tachycardia syndrome, is also associated with an increased risk of stroke. - Structural disease: - Patent foramen ovale:[5] The role of a patent foramen ovale in strokes, particularly the so-called "cryptogenic strokes," is currently an area of great interest. Current evidence is insufficient to conclude about its role as a causative factor, or merely as a conduit for paradoxical emboli. - Valvular heart disease: Even with the absence of arrhythmias, valvular heart diseases correlate with an increased risk of stroke. These include: - Rheumatic valvular disease; the most common is rheumatic mitral stenosis. Without anticoagulation, the risk of stroke is very high. - Infective endocarditis: Approximately 10% of cases of infective endocarditis develop embolic strokes. The risk of stroke occurrence is highest before instituting, or within the first two weeks of antibiotic therapy.[4] Anticoagulation is contraindicated because, usually, they are associated with superimposed microhemorrhages. However, current recommendations are to start anticoagulation seven days after a stroke. - Non-infective endocarditis such as marantic endocarditis - Valvular calcifications: Native valvular calcification, particularly of the mitral valve, increases the risk of developing a cardioembolic stroke. Mitral annular calcification correlates with a relative risk of 2.1 for the development of embolic stroke.[6] - Mechanical prosthetic heart valves have a stroke rate of 2% to 4%, even in patients maintained on oral anticoagulation. Permanent anticoagulation with an INR between 2.5-3.5 is mandatory. Bioprosthetic heart valves have a lower risk of stroke, and aspirin is recommended unless the patient has atrial fibrillation. - Mitral valve prolapse has a low risk of stroke, and anticoagulation