high speed displacing blood from the left ventricle to the proximal ascending aorta and works on the principle of Archimedes screw. -Protective to trial compared to a 30-day incidence of major adverse events between intractable on the pump and the 2.5 LVAD. It showed no difference between the 2 groups; trends for improved outcomes were observed for the 2.5 supported patients at 90 days. -Placement of the LVAD system takes a longer time compared to IABP and needs more experience. However, it provides a better improvement in cardiac index. _Left-atrium-to-aorta assist device_ With a percutaneous left atrium to aortic assistive device, blood is pumped from the left atrium to the iliofemoral system. It is approved by the US FDA for 6 hours of support. A randomized control trial comparing this device with an IABP in 41 patients with cardiogenic shock after acute myocardial infarction. Hemodynamic and metabolic parameters were more effectively reversed with the left atrium to aorta assist device. Complications such as severe bleeding and acute limb ischemia are more common with this device, and there is no difference in 30-day mortality (VAT 43% versus balloon pump 45%). [13] _ECMO-venoarterial bypass configuration_ Pulmonary circulation is bypassed, and oxygenated blood returns to the patient via an arterial or venous route. The extracorporeal pump is employed to support systemic perfusion. Cannulas are placed into the central vein and central artery. Blood from the venous catheter is pumped through a heat exchanger and oxygenator. Blood is returned to the systemic arterial circulation via arterial cannula. This is used in patients with circulatory and respiratory failure. **Palliative Care in Cardiogenic shock** - Early referral to a palliative care specialist is recommended as a strategy to reduce physical and emotional distress, optimize symptom control, and improve quality of life. Current Management Guidelines 1. Immediate transfer for PCI 1. Consider open heart surgery if PCI not available 1. Start fibrinolytic therapy if PCI and open surgery not available 1. Do not start beta-blockers 1. May use an IABP to stabilize the patient 1. Consider LV assist device if no contraindications ## Differential Diagnosis - Septic shock - Shock due to hemorrhage - Neurogenic shock ## Prognosis Cardiogenic shock carries a poor prognosis and is the leading cause of death in patients with an acute MI. Close to 80% of patients die despite optimal treatment. Complications associated with cardiogenic shock include: - Dysrhythmias - Cardiac arrest