cervical spine injury. Therefore, it is not surprising that the most common cervical spine injury seen in geriatric patients is an injury at C2, followed by injury at C1. Elderly patients may have other pathologies increasing the risk of cervical spine injury, including ankylosing spondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, and cervical canal stenosis. They are also more likely to have metastatic spinal tumors and decreased bone density related to aging. The presence of pre-existing cervical spine abnormalities increases the risk of spinal cord injuries in elderly patients, particularly central cord syndrome and anterior cord syndrome. ## History and Physical Most geriatric patients with cervical spine injury will relate a history of trauma. However, cervical spine injury may be secondary to a minor mechanism that the patient may not have considered worth reporting. For example, forceful pulling on the hand in the setting of spine tumor. In this population, it is also important to remember that cognitive decline is common in both patients coming from home and patients coming from facilities, and the history may be somewhat limited or incomplete. A high index of suspicion for occult trauma is important. The provider should attempt to obtain a history from witnesses and caregivers regarding the event. It is important to consider the potential for an underlying medical reason for the presenting trauma. Geriatric patients may be involved in motor vehicle accidents or falls as a result of arrhythmia, stroke, dissection, infection, seizure, metabolic disturbance, hemorrhage, or polypharmacy. These patients often have both medical disease as well as traumatic injury, and both need careful evaluation. The physical exam should be thorough, beginning with the ABCs and proceeding through a complete neurologic exam. The patient should be fully exposed and rolled to assess for other signs of injury/infection, and every joint should be ranged to avoid missing occult injury. ## Evaluation The best diagnostic test readily available to assess for cervical spine injury in the emergency setting is a CT scan. Plain radiographs are limited in the geriatric patient because of osteopenia and osteoarthritis. Further, the most commonly injured areas of the cervical spine in the geriatric patient (C2 and C1) are poorly visualized on plain films. Therefore, when a decision to image a geriatric patient is made, the provider should obtain a CT scan. Since the overall incidence of injury to the spine is low, and CT scanning is costly and exposes patients to ionizing