forced hyperextension or hyperflexion injuries). Geriatric patients have a higher risk of low-energy injuries secondary to, but not limited to, osteoporosis, osteopenia, and a generalized decrease in the spinal columns physiologic protective capabilities secondary to decreases in total mobility and degenerative changes.[8][7] ## Epidemiology One-third of geriatric patients sustain falls each year, and 12% of elderly Americans present to emergency departments annually for injury-related visits. Given that people over age 65 are the fastest growing segment of the population, this represents a significant burden of disease. While the epidemiology of traumatic cervical spine fractures is not well-known or established for the general adult population, the incidence rate demonstrates a bimodal class pattern by age groups. These injuries first reach a peak incidence rate in patients age 15 to 54 years of age, and the second peak incidence is reached between ages 65 to 80 years of age.[9] Cervical fractures have a 2.6% to 4.7% prevalence rate in patients older than 65 years old, and most studies cite at least a 50% (or greater) incidence rate of low energy or ground level falls as the source of these cervical spine fractures.[10][11] ## Pathophysiology The cervical spinal column is composed of seven stacked vertebrae with intervening intervertebral disks. The spinal column is made of 2 columns: (1) an anterior column comprising vertebral bodies, discs, the stabilizing anterior and posterior longitudinal ligaments, and (2) a posterior column, composed of the pedicles, laminae, facets, spinous processes, and stabilizing ligamentum flavum, capsular ligaments, and nuchal ligament complex. The cervical column has considerable mobility, allowing flexion, extension, and rotation. This makes the cervical spine prone to injury. Spinal injuries are considered unstable if both the anterior and the posterior column are disrupted at the same level. In the young cervical spine, the most mobile segment, and therefore the segment most prone to injury, is C4 to C7. As the cervical spine ages, it is believed that degenerative changes result in decreased mobility in the lower cervical spine, making C1 to C2 the most mobile segment, and therefore, the most prone to injury. It has also been noted that low-velocity mechanisms of injury (such as fall, as compared to motor vehicle crashes) are more likely to result in upper cervical spine injury than lower cervical spine injury, regardless of age. Older individuals are more likely to have low-velocity mechanisms, with falls being the most common cause of