for aortic dissection.[8][9] The advantage of a CT pulmonary angiogram over the ventilation/perfusion (V/Q) scan is that it simultaneously evaluates the lungs for pulmonary infarction and assesses right heart strain. However, CT is associated with higher radiation exposure. Dual-energy CT is a more recent technique used to detect pulmonary emboli better. Triple rule-out studies that evaluate for aortic dissection, pulmonary embolism, and coronary artery CT angiograms have been used in the emergency room to rule out all 3 causes of acute chest pain. ## Magnetic Resonance Patients with contraindications for contrast-enhanced CT, such as severe contrast allergy or renal failure, are candidates for MRI. This modality does not use ionizing radiation and can be safely used in young and female patients. The disadvantages of MRI include increased cost, longer scan time than CT, and is dependent on patient cooperation because of the higher chances of motion-related artifacts. Standard sequences include T2-weighted sequences in the axial and coronal planes, axial STIR sequence, in and opposed phase T1-weighted sequences in the axial plane, diffusion-weighted sequence Precontrast T1-weighted sequence and postcontrast T1-weighted sequences in early arterial phase, portal venous phase, and 5-minute delay.[10] MRI is used due to its superior resolution of soft tissue structures over CT for distinguishing thymic and other malignant tumors from benign lesions and detecting invasion of the surrounding structures. The normal thymus and thymic hyperplasia contain a small amount of fat. Microscopic fat is difficult to evaluate on CT. However, MRI can distinguish thymic hyperplasia from a thymoma because of the T1-weighted in-phase and out-of-phase images that detect microscopic fat. Decreased signal intensity on T1-weighted out-phase images compared to in-phase images is noted in thymic hyperplasia. This finding is absent in thymoma. Additionally, MRI can be used to assess congenital cardiac diseases and for those who require annual surveillance for aneurysms, which may be seen in patients with connective tissue disorders such as Marfan's syndrome. Gated cardiac MRI is used to assess cardiomyopathy and valvular heart diseases. ## Ultrasonography Ultrasonography (USG) is commonly used to assess heart function and structure through echocardiography. USG is a non-ionizing modality that can be performed at the bedside to evaluate and quantitate pleural effusions. Conventional ultrasound-guided biopsy and endobronchial ultrasonography (EBUS) are used to detect and obtain tissue from mediastinal masses and lymphadenopathy.[11] Ultrasound of the testis: If a male patient has an anterior mediastinal mass suspected or proven to be a