and its branches, the vena cava, the trachea, and the esophagus. The most common masses include lymphoma and metastatic lymphadenopathy. Other lesions include aneurysms of the aorta, pericardial and cardiogenic tumors, foregut inclusion cysts, and esophageal and tracheal tumors. **Posterior Compartment** This extends from the anterior aspect of the thoracic spine to include the spine and vertebral bodies. Contents include the spinal cord, thoracic spine, neurovascular bundle, and sympathetic chain. Accordingly, neurogenic tumors are the most common posterior mediastinal masses. These include meningiomas, schwannomas, meningocele. Other lesions include bony metastasis and paravertebral abscess. The posterior mediastinum is also the site of extramedullary hematopoiesis, which can present as soft tissue masses. ## Plain Films Chest X-rays are the initial modality of choice for imaging the mediastinum. Typically, an outpatient X-ray consists of a 2-view PA (posterior-anterior) and lateral views of the chest. It can be used to diagnose emergent conditions such as aortic dissection, pneumomediastinum, pneumoperitoneum, and pneumothorax, as well as infections or masses such as cancer. Single-view portable AP (anteroposterior) x-rays are performed in the ICU, in patients with mechanical ventilation, after placement of lines and tubes, or in those who cannot tolerate obtaining PA views. Mediastinal widening refers to the width of the mediastinum being more than 8 cm on a PA chest radiograph.[2] This is a red flag, especially in patients with trauma, as the most common causes include aortic dissection or mediastinal hematoma. Other causes include aortic aneurysms or mediastinal tumors. Multiple other signs are used to evaluate the mediastinum on chest X-rays. The hilum overlay sign is useful for evaluating mediastinal masses on a plain radiograph. When the normal hilar structures are seen through the mass, it suggests that the mass is either anterior or posterior to the hila, allowing it to be seen.[3] The right paratracheal stripe is a subtle line projecting through the superior vena cava. Thickened right paratracheal stripe of more than 4 mm suggests lesions in this region, most commonly lymphadenopathy. The aorticopulmonary window extends from the aortic knob to the left pulmonary artery. This is usually concave or straight. A convex contour is considered abnormal and suggests mediastinal lymphadenopathy or aortic aneurysm. The paraspinal lines are seen due to the opposition between the pleural reflection and the vertebral bodies. The paraspinal lines are obscured by posterior mediastinal masses such as neurogenic tumors and metastasis. Chest fluoroscopy is continuous real-time imaging using