thymic rebound occurs as a result of contrast chemotherapy. Thymic hyperplasia can be differentiated from thymic tumors as the triangular contour of the thymus is maintained. Thymoma accounts for 47% of tumors in the anterior mediastinum.[6] They can invade adjacent thoracic structures. Metastasis is rare. Thymic carcinoma, on the other hand, shows local invasion along with distant metastasis. Calcifications can be seen in both thymoma and thymic carcinoma. Soft tissue tumors in the posterior mediastinum include neurogenic tumors such as schwannomas and neurofibromas. Schwannomas grow through the intervertebral foramina, producing a dumbbell configuration. **Imaging for Acute Aortic Syndrome and Pulmonary Embolism** An increase in aortic diameter greater than 4 cm in the ascending aorta is considered pathologic. An aortic aneurysm with an increase in the size of greater than 10 mm per year is considered unstable, along with associated intramural hematoma or eccentric lumen.[7] Aortic aneurysms can be traumatic, degenerative, or due to congenital defects such as Marfan syndrome. Aortic dissection is identified on CT angiograms as a thin intraluminal flap within the aorta. The Stanford classification classifies as sections into Stanford type A, which involves the ascending aorta and is a surgical emergency, and Stanford type B, which involves the descending aorta without the involvement of the ascending aorta. CT angiograms performed for aortic dissection incorporated an unenhanced phase, arterial phase, and venous phase sequences. The unenhanced phase is important for evaluating intramural hematoma and hemopericardium. Intramural hematoma is curvilinear hyperdense lesions on the unenhanced CT within the aortic lumen. The studies are usually EKG-gated to reduce motion artifacts. 3-D volume-rendered reformats are particularly helpful in evaluating the extent of dissection and involvement of the branch vessels. Penetrating ulcers are atherosclerotic plaques that disrupt the intima. Congenital vasculature abnormalities include a right-sided aortic arch, a double aortic arch, an aberrant right subclavian artery, and a left superior vena cava. While these are uncommon, they have important clinical significance. Pulmonary embolism, another life-threatening condition, can be assessed using CT pulmonary angiograms. Based on imaging features, pulmonary embolism can be further classified as acute or chronic based on the age of the embolus. The difference between CT pulmonary angiograms and CT angiograms for dissection is that the region of interest, which triggers the scan in bolus dose triggering, is placed on the pulmonary artery in case of a CT pulmonary angiogram and usually in the ascending aorta on a CT angiogram