chronic liver disease; chronic alcohol use disorder; diabetes mellitus; smoking; splenectomy; human immunodeficiency virus (or other immunosuppression); a respiratory fluoroquinolone (high-dose levofloxacin, moxifloxacin, gemifloxacin); a combination of oral beta-lactam (high dose amoxicillin or amoxicillin-clavulanate, cefuroxime, cefpodoxime); and macrolide is recommended.[11][12][13][14] Inpatient management is recommended for patients with a CURB 65 score greater than or equal to 2. A respiratory fluoroquinolone monotherapy or combination therapy with beta-lactam (cefotaxime, ceftriaxone, ampicillin-sulbactam, or ertapenem) and macrolide are recommended options for non-intensive care settings. Admission to the intensive care unit must be considered in patients with 3 or more signs of early deterioration. These include respiratory rate greater than 30, PaO2/FiO2 less than or equal to 250, multilobar infiltrates, encephalopathy, thrombocytopenia, hypothermia, leucopenia, and hypotension. Combination therapy with a beta-lactam and either a macrolide or a respiratory fluoroquinolone is recommended. In patients with suspected aspiration, ampicillin-sulbactam or ertapenem can be used. Monotherapy is not recommended. If risk factors for Pseudomonas are present, then antipseudomonal beta-lactam (piperacillin-tazobactam, cefepime, ceftazidime, meropenem, imipenem) along with either an antipseudomonal fluoroquinolone (ciprofloxacin or levofloxacin) or a combination of aminoglycoside and azithromycin are recommended. Vancomycin or linezolid should be added if community-acquired methicillin-resistant _S aureus_ is a consideration. The recommended duration of therapy is 5 to 7 days in patients with a favorable clinical response, such as the absence of fever for more than 48 to 72 hours, not requiring supplemental oxygen, and resolution of tachycardia, tachypnea, or hypotension. Prolongation of therapy is indicated in patients with a delayed response, specific bacterial pathogens such as Pseudomonas (14-21 days) or _S aureus_ (7-21 days), or Legionella pneumonia (14 days), and for complications such as empyema, lung abscess, or necrotizing pneumonia. Chest tube placement will be needed to drain an empyema, and in cases with multiple loculations, a surgical decortication may be needed. A 14-day therapy with macrolide or doxycycline will treat tularemia pneumonia or psittacosis, and itraconazole is the drug of choice for pneumonia caused by coccidioidomycosis or histoplasmosis. A 5-day therapy with oseltamivir is recommended for all patients who test positive for the influenza virus and present within 48 hours of symptom onset; there is no benefit to oseltamivir if started beyond 48 hours after symptom onset. Still, any hospitalized patients with influenza must be treated with this agent regardless of the presentation time from the beginning of the illness. Intravenous glucocorticoids can be considered adjunctive therapy in critically ill