_Chlamydia psittaci_[7] Among viruses, rhinovirus, influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), and other respiratory viruses (parainfluenza, respiratory syncytial virus, human metapneumovirus, etc) have become increasingly detected as pathogens based on molecular detection methods. Worldwide, _S pneumoniae_ and _H influenzae_ are still the leading causes of acute bacterial pneumonia (see **Image.** Mycobacterium Avium-Intracellulare Pneumonia). The most recent population-based active surveillance in the United States identified that human rhinovirus, influenza virus, and _S pneumoniae were the most common pathogens._[8] ## Epidemiology The estimated worldwide incidence of community-acquired pneumonia varies between 1.5 to 14 cases per 1000 person-years and is affected by geography, season, and population characteristics.[5] In the US the annual incidence is 24.8 cases per 10,000 adults, with higher rates as age increases. Pneumonia is the eighth leading cause of death and first among infectious causes of death. The mortality rate is as high as 23% for patients admitted to the intensive care unit for severe pneumonia. All patients with comorbid illness are considered at risk for pneumonia, but specific risk factors exist for particular pathogens. Drug-resistant pneumococci are more likely in: - Those older than 65 - Children in daycare centers - Those who have taken beta-lactam antibiotics in the previous 90 days - Individuals with alcohol use disorder, chronic medical conditions, and immune suppression Pseudomonas pneumonia is more likely in those with: - Bronchiectasis - Malnutrition - Corticosteroid therapy - Antibiotic intake for greater than 7 days in the preceding month Other etiological clues from geographic regions include the following: - Coccidioidomycosis in the Southwestern US - Blastomycosis or histoplasmosis in the states of the Ohio River valley bird exposures for _Chlamydia psittaci_ - Contact with flea-infested or infected rodents or rabbits during outside activities such as lawn mowing in the Northeast US (Martha's Vineyard, Cape Cod, etc) for tularemia pneumonia ## Pathophysiology Pathogens initially colonize the pharynx, followed by micro-aspiration, which is the mechanism of entry into the lower respiratory tract. Once there, the pathogen induces the host's pulmonary defense. If there is a defect in the host's defense or it is overcome by high inoculum or virulence of the pathogen, then pneumonia will result. Pathogens may also spread through the hematogenous route and macro-aspiration. ## History and Physical Common symptoms of pneumonia include fever, chills, cough productive of purulent sputum, dyspnea, pleuritic chest pain, and weight loss. Patients with alcohol use disorder and those who