patients with severe community-acquired pneumonia without risk factors for adverse outcomes from using steroids (eg, influenza infection). They are associated with reductions in short-term mortality and duration of intensive care days.[15][16][17][18] ## Differential Diagnosis Differential diagnoses for community-acquired pneumonia include: - Acute bronchitis - Acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis - Aspiration pneumonitis - Congestive heart failure and pulmonary edema - Pulmonary fibrosis - Myocardial infarction - Systemic lupus erythematosus pneumonitis - Pulmonary drug hypersensitivity reactions (nitrofurantoin, daptomycin) - Drug-induced pulmonary disease (bleomycin) - Sarcoidosis - Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia - Pulmonary embolus - Pulmonary infarction - Bronchogenic carcinomas - Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener granulomatosis) - Lymphoma - Tracheobronchitis - Radiation pneumonitis ## Pearls and Other Issues Vaccine recommendations evolve in parallel with changing epidemiology vaccine developments and formulation advancements. All adults 65 years and older and those younger than 65 and considered at risk for pneumonia must receive a pneumococcal vaccination (PCV). The 2 vaccines used until 2021 were the pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV) 23 and PCV13. In summer 2021, the US FDA approved 2 additional preparations, PCV20 and PCV15, for adult vaccinations. Since then, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommendations favored using these latter formulations for adult vaccinations. Current ACIP recommendations for previously unvaccinated, non-immune-compromised individuals who are at least aged 65 years, as well as those between 19 to 64 years with risk factors for pneumonia, receive either PCV20 alone or PCV15 coupled with PPSV23 one year later. For adults who already had vaccinations with prior formulations (PCV13 or PPSV23), subsequent options are different. Those who received only PCV13 can be followed by PPSV23 vaccination a year later. If the prior vaccine was only with PPSV23, then after a year, either PCV20 alone or PCV15 followed a year later with another PPSV23 can be given. The 1-year interval between pneumococcal doses can be shortened to 8 weeks for immunocompromised individuals. Influenza vaccination is recommended for all adult patients at risk for influenza-related complications. Inactivated flu shots (trivalent or quadrivalent, egg-based or recombinant) are usually recommended for adults. Live attenuated intranasal vaccine can be given to healthy, nonpregnant adults under 49. This is contraindicated in pregnancy, the immune-suppressed and health care workers caring for them, and in those with comorbidities. COVID-19 vaccination is recommended for all non-immune-compromised adults with either a single dose of a 2023-24 mRNA vaccine regardless of previous vaccination and that it be given at