Transient deterioration in renal function - Transient hot flushes or burning sensation **Major Complications** - Significant bleeding, hematoma, or false aneurysm occur in \<5% of angiograms, and 1 in 100 patients require overnight admission in the observation unit, while 1 in 500–1000 patients will require a second intervention or blood transfusion to correct the bleeding.[9] - Significant allergic reaction (anaphylactoid reaction) - Acute renal failure Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is a substantial source of morbidity, which might require a brief period of renal replacement therapy. The essential preventive measures for contrast related complications include adequate peri-procedural hydration and use of minimal contrast volume.[9] Cigarroa et al. estimated the maximal acceptable contrast dose (MACD) using the following equation: (5 x bodyweight in Kg) divided by serum creatinine in mg/dl; up to a maximum volume of 300ml.[10] However, this formula is less useful in high-risk patients such as those with anemia, diabetes, heart failure, and cardiogenic shock, and it is infrequently used in clinical settings. Gurm et al. concluded that the ratio of contrast volume (CV) to the calculated creatinine clearance (CCC) of less than two is associated with a low incidence of CIN. In contrast, the risk of CIN is markedly increased when the ratio exceeds three.[11] ## Clinical Significance Noninvasive CTA and MRA have replaced most of the diagnostic uses of conventional invasive angiography. Beyond anatomic diagnosis, CTA and MRA can provide a functional assessment of vascular lesions that is comparable to conventional angiography. A systematic review showed the overall diagnostic accuracy of computed tomography fractional flow reserve (CT-FFR), compared with invasive FFR to be 81.9%; however, this drops to 46.1% if in CT-FFR value is between 0.70 and 0.80, and this is where invasive FFR is essential.[12][13] Conventional invasive angiography remains invaluable in the era of fast-expanding therapeutic percutaneous interventions including percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), mechanical thrombectomy for cerebrovascular accidents, peripheral vascular stenting, renal artery stenting, transarterial chemoembolization. Angiographic-derived physiology metrics have recently been introduced and demonstrated to have high accuracy when compared with invasive pressure wire-derived FFR.[14] ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Successful angiography requires a collaborative interprofessional effort by the entire healthcare team. Registered nurses, nurse managers, and radiologic technologists with specialized critical care and technical skills are essential components of the angiography team. In the post-procedural period, case managers and social workers address the social circumstances peculiar to each patient and coordinate patients’ care with the clinicians.