preventing retrograde urine flow from the bladder to the ureter and kidneys. The ureter's blood supply is segmental. The ureteral portion closest to the kidneys receives blood directly from the renal arteries. Abdominal aortic branches and the common iliac and gonadal arteries supply the middle part. The ureters' most distal segment receives circulation from internal iliac artery branches. The T12 to L2 roots create a ureteric plexus and innervate the ureters. Ureteral pain typically refers to T12-L2 dermatomes. The ureters lack reliable anatomical landmarks to mark their location besides the 3 physiologic constrictions. Colorectal and gynecologic procedures, particularly laparoscopic hysterectomies, are highly likely to damage these structures.[8] ## Structure and Function The ureteral wall comprises 3 main tissue layers: the inner mucosa, middle muscle layer, and outer serosa. Stratified transitional epithelium lines the inner ureteral mucosal lining. Deep to this structure is a relatively thick, fibroelastic lamina propria. The transitional epithelium and lamina propria create a watertight mucosal barrier. The ureters have no submucosa or glandular elements. Smooth muscle fibers in different orientations surround the mucosa, forming the muscularis layer. This muscular coat has inner longitudinal, middle circular, and outer longitudinal layers. The pacemaker cells that initiate ureteral peristalsis lie in the minor calyces of the proximal renal pelvis. Peristalsis starts from the renal pelvis and propagates in the ureter but is lost at the UVJ's level, where the circular muscular layer disappears. Surrounding the muscularis is an outer adventitial layer composed of fibroelastic tissue. The adventitia houses the ureteral blood supply, lymphatics, and nerves. The relatively large renal pelvis gradually funnels into the proximal ureter at the UPJ. The ureters travel inferiorly from the renal pelvis apices at the kidney hila, pass anterior to the psoas, and course over the pelvic brim at the common iliac artery bifurcation. From there, these muscular tubes travel along the pelvis' lateral wall and connect to the urinary bladder. The ureters' abdominal regions are retroperitoneal throughout their course. The gonadal vessels pass anterior to the ureter a third of the way to the bladder. The ureters enter the bladder on the posteroinferior lateral wall, where they fuse with the trigone.[9] Each ureter traverses the detrusor muscle layers obliquely upon entering the bladder, forming the intramural ureter before emptying into the bladder through the ureteral orifice. This transverse entry into the bladder creates an anti-reflux valvular mechanism that prevents retrograde flow from the bladder