Direct methods include using pressure transducers (eg, Veress needle during laparoscopic surgery) or intraperitoneal catheters (eg, peritoneal dialysis catheter). These methods are highly accurate but are invasive. The most accepted method of measuring IAP is the use of indirect IAP measurements through intravesicular catheter pressures. This is the most practical approach due to its widespread availability and limited invasiveness. This technique involves aseptic clamping of the Foley catheter and connecting the Foley to a 3-way stopcock adjusted to the level of the mid-axillary line at the iliac crest to zero the transducer. 25 cc of sterile saline is then injected into the bladder. Measurements should be taken at end-expiration with the patient in a complete supine position. [5][14] Bladder pressures below 5 mm Hg are expected in healthy patients. Pressures between 10 to 15 mm Hg can be expected following abdominal surgery and in obese patients. Bladder pressures over 25 mm Hg are highly suspicious of ACS and should be correlated clinically. It is recommended that pressure measurements be trended every 6 hours to identify worsening IAH when there is potential for the development of ACS. Contraindications to using bladder pressures include bladder trauma, neurogenic bladder, benign prostatic hypertrophy, and pelvic hematoma.[24][25] Pelvic fracture, bladder hematoma, and peritoneal adhesions will lead to inaccurate measurements.[23] If bladder measurements are unavailable, other screening methods for IAH include placement of a central line to measure IVC pressure, manometry through a Jackson-Pratt drain, and intragastric pressure measurement through a nasogastric tube. These are not well-validated and not commonly used methods.[23] ## Treatment / Management Choosing the appropriate intervention and timing of the intervention is determined by the etiology of the elevated IAP, the duration of increased IAP, and the degree of organ dysfunction. Not every patient with ACS will immediately need surgical decompression, as nonsurgical interventions can decrease intra-abdominal volume and ultimately improve IAP. If clinically indicated, intraluminal volume can be reduced with nasogastric decompression, rectal tube decompression, or endoscopic decompression. Percutaneous drainage can reduce extraluminal volume in the case of ascites or hematoma.[5][20][23] Abdominal wall compliance can be improved with adequate sedation and neuromuscular blockade, removal of constrictive dressings, and eschar release, among other options. Other recommendations made by the WSACS include optimizing fluid administration, resuscitating with hypertonic products or colloids, consideration of hemodialysis or ultrafiltration, and goal-directed resuscitation.[5] However, the quality of evidence is low and needs to be considered when using