but may empty into another site in the genitourinary tract. In males, the anomalous ureter may empty into the bladder neck or prostatic urethra. In female individuals, ectopic ureters may open into the vestibule or vagina.[26] Urinary incontinence often results from the direct communication between the urinary system and parts of the genitals without a sphincteric mechanism.[27] **Horseshoe Kidneys** Horseshoe kidneys have the ureters located anterior to the isthmus immediately below the inferior mesenteric artery. A higher-than-usual rate of UPJ obstructions is associated with horseshoe kidneys.[28] ## Surgical Considerations The most common causes of ureteral injury are iatrogenic.[29] The overall incidence of iatrogenic ureteral injury varies between 0.5% and 10%. The type of procedure that most frequently causes inadvertent ureteral injury is a hysterectomy (54%) due to the proximity of the uterine artery to the distal ureter.[30][31] Each ureter is typically only about 2 cm from the cervix, but the distance can be shorter than 0.5 cm in 12% of women.[32] Laparoscopic hysterectomies cause more iatrogenic ureteral injuries than open surgeries. Placement of bilateral ureteral catheters or stents reduces this risk but lengthens the overall procedure and produces more genitourinary complications. Common mechanisms of ureteral injuries during gynecological procedures include severe angulation, crush trauma, laceration, ligation, ischemia, and transection at several locations.[33] The ureteral sites frequently involved include the following: - At the pelvic brim - In the cardinal ligament at the level of the cervix, where the ureter and uterine arteries cross - At the anterolateral vaginal fornix - Near the UVJ, especially during Marshall-Marchetti-Krantz procedures - Near the uterosacral ligaments, if thickened due to endometriosis - Near the broad ligament when suturing for hemostasis - Near the hypogastric artery, when this vessel needs ligation In general surgery, colonic procedures are the most frequent causes of iatrogenic ureteral injury. The abdominal ureter is often challenging to identify due to scarring, adhesions, prior surgery, or involvement with the primary pathology. Ureteral stenting or catheterization can minimize inadvertent ureteral damage during colonic surgery. Isolation of the ureter from the surrounding tissue after tracing its location from a known anatomic landmark may also be considered. The 3 anatomical landmarks used for identifying the ureter during surgery are the UPJ, iliac bifurcation, and UVJ. Other risk factors for ureteral injuries include malignancy, large pelvic masses, history of pelvic inflammatory disease, previous pelvic or abdominal surgery, and radiation therapy. Ureteral injuries may present with