congestive cardiac failure, and arrhythmias.[42] Elevated CK-MB levels have long indicated the diagnosis of AMI. Although many centers are utilizing troponin levels instead of CK-MB, a newer, more specific CK-MB analysis method is used.[43] The new testing method involves measuring the values of the CK-MB1 and CK-MB2 isoforms. In a normal patient, the ratio of CK-MB2 to CK-MB1 should be 1 to 1. In the case of AMI, the ratio peaks within 4 hours of the infarction. However, some evidence of AMI can be detected as early as 1 to 2 hours after the infarction.[44] To diagnose AMI, the ratio of CK-MB2 to CK-MB1 should be greater than 1.7 to 1. However, a ratio greater than or equal to 1.5 to 1 strongly indicates AMI. Additional cardiac conditions that increase serum CK and CK-MB in the serum are coronary artery bypass surgery, cardiac transplantation, myocarditis, and pulmonary embolism.[45] Serum CK activity is significantly elevated in all types of muscular dystrophy.[46] In Duchenne sex-linked muscular dystrophy, enzyme activity is highest in childhood and may be elevated long before clinical signs appear, especially during infancy (7 to 10 years of age). Serum CK activity decreases as patients age, and the mass of functioning muscles diminishes with the progression of the disease. About 50% to 80% of the asymptomatic female carriers of Duchenne dystrophy show threefold to sixfold increases in CK activity.[47][48] High CK values are noted in viral myositis, polymyositis, and similar muscle diseases. However, serum enzyme activity is not increased in neurogenic muscle diseases like myasthenia gravis, multiple sclerosis, poliomyelitis, and parkinsonism.[49] Patients with Alzheimer disease and Pick disease may have decreased CK activity in the brain. The BB-CK activity is primarily decreased in these patients, resulting in an overall decrease in total CK activity.[50] CK levels also rise in patients with rhabdomyolysis.[51] Rhabdomyolysis may result from a crush injury, drug use, viral infections, and strenuous exercise. The condition typically presents with muscle pain, weakness, and dark-colored urine. A breakdown of skeletal muscle is usually seen, releasing CK, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and electrolytes.[52] The reason for the dark urine is due to myoglobinuria. A CK level that increases to more than 1000 IU/L indicates rhabdomyolysis; values over 5000 IU/L indicate severe rhabdomyolysis. Patients with sickle cell trait who start a new strenuous exercise program such as spin class are also at an increased risk of rhabdomyolysis, with reported