history of mild allergic reactions can be pretreated with steroids and antihistamines. Patients with underlying renal impairment or dehydration are at high risk of developing renal function following exposure to contrast medium. Ultra-low contrast or zero contrast techniques have been proposed for this subset of patients.[6][7] Patients with coagulopathy, INR > 2, and platelet count < 50,000/microliter are at higher risk of bleeding. However, with the advent of vascular closure devices, the risk of bleeding is now minimal. Patients with diabetes on metformin are at risk of deterioration in renal function and lactic acidosis, especially if they have underlying renal impairment. Patients with excessive anxiety or who are unable to lie still may require conscious sedation. ## Equipment The procedure room for angiography and angiography related interventions should be spacious enough to accommodate all of the machinery as well as staff. - The essential equipment needed for conventional angiography include: - Set of catheters and guide wires - Autoinjector - Image intensifying screen - Sliding table - Remote computerized equipment - Biplane C-arm digital imaging - Generator ## Personnel Angiography teams are usually led by clinicians who possess highly specialized critical care and technical skills and maybe specialized in interventional radiology, vascular surgery, interventional neuroradiology, or interventional cardiology, depending on the specific study or procedure. Angiography lab nurses and nurse managers ensure the safety of patients before, during, and after the procedure, and they must possess critical care and cardiovascular monitoring skills. Radiology technicians in the angiography room possess the technical skills for vascular imaging and cardiovascular monitoring to ensure the safety of patients. ## Preparation Patients' preparations before conventional angiography are individualized based on the patients' characteristics, type of angiography that is planned, and the indication. All patients undergoing conventional angiography should be well hydrated to minimize the risk of contrast medium-induced nephrotoxicity. Fasting for 6 t 8 hours may be required in certain circumstances. Patients with impaired renal function, diabetic patients on metformin, patients on antiplatelet or anticoagulant agents, and those with prior history of allergy to iodinated contrast should be appropriately evaluated before angiography to ensure the safety of the procedure. ## Technique or Treatment Access for angiography is gained via a large or medium-sized artery, and location varies according to the procedure. The femoral route is usually used as a retrograde approach for procedures involving the iliac vessels, the abdominal and thoracic aorta, the upper limbs,