results from network meta-analysis indicate that NOACs are an effective treatment for thromboprophylaxis of VTE or VTE-related mortality) in the extended treatment scenarios. However, the complication with bleeding risk differs. Accordingly, apixaban was reported to have the most favorable profile. The comparison was published in the context of other NOACs, warfarin with endpoints of INR 2.0 to 3.0, and aspirin.[49][50][51] In the mechanical prophylactic arm, the following measures should be evaluated; - Graduated compression stockings - Intermittent pneumatic compression devices - Venous foot pumps - Electrical stimulation devices Still, mechanical devices should be applied in conjunction with pharmacological prophylaxis.[20] ## Deterrence and Patient Education Patients should be educated on the following: - Ambulation - Wearing compression stockings - Discontinuing smoking ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Deep-vein thromboses can occur in many settings and almost every medical specialty; failing to diagnose DVT can result in a pulmonary embolus, which can be fatal. DVTs also result in more prolonged admission to the hospital and drug treatment that can last 3 to 9 months, all of which add to the cost of healthcare. Thus its diagnosis and management are best made with an interprofessional healthcare team consisting of clinicians, specialists, nurses, physical therapists, vascular technicians, and pharmacists. The focus is on the prevention of DVT. In addition to clinicians, both nurses and pharmacists are vital in educating patients about DVT prophylaxis. Nurses are the first professionals to encounter patients being admitted to the hospital, and it is here that the prevention of DVT starts. Nurses must educate the patients on the importance of ambulation, complying with compression stockings, and taking the prescribed anticoagulation medications. In both the operating room and post-surgery, nurses play a key role in reminding physicians of the need for DVT prophylaxis. Each hospital has guidelines on DVT prophylaxis and treatment, and all healthcare workers should follow them. Once a DVT has developed, the pharmacist should be familiar with the current anticoagulants and their indications. They can consult with the prescribing/ordering clinician and perform medication reconciliation. Plus, the pharmacist must educate the patients on the need for treatment compliance and the need to undergo regular testing to ensure that the INR is therapeutic.[37][52] Once DVT is diagnosed, the treatment is with an anticoagulant for 3 to 6 months, and again, monitoring of the INR by a hematology nurse or pharmacist is necessary. Further, these patients need to be monitored for