monitored setting to help detect delirium. One of the tools with the most widespread use is the Confusion Assessment Method (CAM). It has been validated with a sensitivity of 94% to 100% and specificity of 90% to 95% in the diagnosis of delirium, and it includes the following criteria: The presence of delirium requires features 1 and 2 and either 3 or 4: 1. Acute change in mental status with a fluctuating course 1. Inattention (reduced ability to sustain attention and follow conversations) 1. Disorganized thinking (problems with memory, orientation, or language) 1. Altered level of consciousness (hypervigilance, drowsiness, or stupor) The CAM has been adapted for target populations, including the CAM-ICU, which added nonverbal tasks for ventilated patients. Adaptations have also been made for the emergency department and those residing in nursing homes.[13] When evaluating a patient with delirium, it is important to speak with caregivers or other people who know the patient well. Many patients with delirium have underlying dementia, and knowing the baseline functional status of a patient is critical to understanding whether acute changes have occurred. Other important questions to ask while taking the history include: Have there been any medication changes? Drug-related causes account for up to 39% of delirium cases.[14] Have there been any new symptoms such as cough, fever, headache, dysuria, expressions of pain, or change in eating or bowel and urinary habits? Has there been any sleep deprivation or changes to their environment? Have there been any falls? This may prompt the need for brain imaging. It may also suggest the need for X-rays to evaluate for bone fractures. It is also imperative to carefully review recent and current medications. If possible, avoid drugs known to precipitate and perpetuate delirium, including psychoactive or anticholinergic medications. ## Evaluation A head-to-toe physical examination should be performed, including, but not limited to, cardiac, pulmonary, neurological, mental status, abdominal, musculoskeletal, and skin exams. Vital signs should be evaluated. It is advised to take a targeted approach in the assessment, letting the physical exam findings and medical history inform the type of evaluation performed. Subjecting a delirious patient to medical evaluations can be stress-inducing and perpetuate delirium. It is advised to focus on the most probable diagnostic suspicions first. As an initial step, a complete blood count, arterial blood analysis (if appropriate), complete metabolic panel, and urinalysis are often recommended. Chest radiography, electrocardiography, and bladder scan are