overlap, and their balance is vital to brain function. **Neuroendocrine** Increased glucocorticoid release in response to physiologic stress increases the vulnerability of neurons to subsequent damage and impacts the regulation of gene transcription, cellular signaling, and glial cell behavior.[3] ## History and Physical Delirium is a potential indicator of a life-threatening illness, and every episode of delirium should be appropriately evaluated. The evaluation involves taking a thorough history, a complete physical exam, laboratory tests, and possible imaging. The test selections should be based on information obtained from the history and physical examination, considering that delirium is often multifactorial in etiology and can be influenced by several predisposing factors, precipitating factors, or both. Delirium is often referred to in 3 main manifestations. 1. Hyperactive Delirium: Patients present with increased agitation and sympathetic activity. They can present with hallucinations, delusions, and occasionally combative or uncooperative behavior. 1. Hypoactive Delirium: Patients have increased somnolence and decreased arousal. Hypoactive delirium is dangerous as it is often unrecognized or mistaken for fatigue or depression. It is associated with higher rates of morbidity and mortality. 1. Mixed Presentation: Patients can fluctuate between Hyperactive and Hypoactive presentations.[3] Delirium is defined by the DSM-5 (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders Fifth Edition) and includes the presence of all of the following criteria: - Disturbance in attention and awareness develops acutely and tends to fluctuate in severity. - At least one additional disturbance in cognition - Disturbances are not better explained by preexisting dementia. - Disturbances do not occur in the context of a severely reduced level of arousal or coma. - Evidence of an underlying organic cause or causes.[11] Other features include alterations in the sleep-wake cycle, perceptual disturbances, delusions, inappropriate or unsafe behavior, and emotional lability.[12] Detection is the first step in evaluation and treatment. The syndrome of delirium presents over hours to days. A recent study estimated that delirium is unrecognized in up to 60% of cases. It is much easier to detect hyperactive delirium because patients often cause a disturbance in their environment. However, hypoactive delirium is often missed as patients are less disruptive. Caregivers may provide clues to the presence of hypoactive delirium with comments such as "They are sleeping more than usual," "They haven't eaten much in the last few days," or "I'm worried they are depressed; they just stay in their room all day." Several tools have been developed in a