also recommended. Additional tests such as a lumbar puncture, electroencephalography, and toxicology studies are useful in select cases. Blood cultures should be taken if the clinician suspects sepsis of an indeterminate origin. Brain imaging may be indicated in select cases but is not routinely required. It is also recommended to evaluate for untreated sources of pain, including constipation.[15] The diagnosis of delirium is clinically based. Studies have been looking for biomarkers to help diagnose delirium, including inflammatory markers, cortisol, interleukins, and C-reactive protein. However, none have been validated for clinical application, such as diagnosis or monitoring.[16] ## Treatment / Management The main treatments for delirium are based on non-pharmacologic interventions, as there are no FDA-approved medications for the treatment or prevention of delirium. Preventing delirium from occurring is the most efficacious intervention. Identifying patients at risk for delirium and taking special precautions to prevent delirium is crucial. Non-modifiable risk factors include a history of an underlying neurodegenerative disorder such as dementia and increasing age. Modifiable factors include medications, infections, environmental factors, and reduced sensory input. The American Geriatrics Society has supported the Hospital Elder Life Program (HELP), which has been shown to reduce the incidence of delirium in elderly patients. This is an interdisciplinary program with many components. Interventions include decreasing environmental disturbances and prioritizing uninterrupted sleep. During the day, guidelines encourage the use of eyeglasses or hearing aids to optimize hearing and vision, the use of tools to improve orientation, including clocks and calendars to remind individuals where they are, early morning rise times, and adequate fluid intake. It supports frequent mobilization and reduction in tethers, such as urinary catheters or IV lines that limit mobility. Therapeutic activities such as music therapy are encouraged when appropriate. It is known these strategies are cost-effective and remain the primary treatment for delirium. The HELP program has also been shown to reduce the rate of falls by 42% and reduce hospital costs per patient by $1600 to $3800 (2018 U.S. dollars) and over $16,000 (2018 U.S. dollars) per person-year of long-term care costs in the year following a delirium episode.[17] While prevention and nonpharmacologic interventions are the mainstays of treatment for delirium, it may occasionally be necessary to utilize pharmacologic therapies, which are only considered appropriate in limited circumstances. Patients suffering from delirium due to substance withdrawal may need the appropriate pharmacologic treatments, for example, using benzodiazepines to treat alcohol withdrawal. Delirium