at the end of life can require pharmacologic therapies to alleviate the patient's pain and suffering. There are no recommended pharmacologic treatments for hypoactive delirium. A patient with hyperactive delirium whose behavior is a threat to themselves or others may need pharmacologic treatment. Treating the underlying cause of delirium with necessary medications, such as antibiotics, in the instance of infection is always appropriate. In the case of hyperactive delirium with behaviors presenting a risk to the patient or others, antipsychotics are the recommended first-line treatment if not contraindicated due to another comorbidity. Frequently used options include haloperidol, quetiapine, and risperidone.[11] The agent of choice depends on mitigating side effects and the patient's underlying comorbidities. For example, quetiapine would be preferred, and haloperidol would be avoided in patients with Parkinsons disease.[18] The dose of antipsychotic medications should be optimized and adjusted every day until no longer needed. It is essential to monitor a patient's QTc interval with an electrocardiogram, as antipsychotics can cause QTc prolongation. Many medications have been evaluated for the prevention and treatment of delirium; however, multiple studies have shown no clear evidence that they reduce the incidence of delirium compared with placebo, possibly due to the multifactorial etiology of delirium. Melatonin is sometimes used for the desired benefit of regulating sleep patterns and its anti-inflammatory properties. Some studies have shown that melatonin can be used to decrease the incidence of delirium; however, another large meta-analysis has shown that it has no significant effect. Cholinesterase inhibitors have also been evaluated, but there is minimal evidence to support their efficacy, and potential risks may outweigh the benefits of their use.[2][11] ## Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis for delirium include the following: - Dementia - Psychosis - Depression - Paranoia - Coma - Catatonia - Central nervous system malignancy - Nonconvulsive status epilepticus ## Prognosis The overall prognosis for patients with delirium is guarded. ## Complications The complications that can manifest with delirium are as follows: - Aspiration pneumonia - Pressure ulcers - Weakness, decreased mobility, and decreased function - Falls and combative behavior leading to injuries and fractures - Malnutrition, fluid, and electrolyte abnormalities - Long-term cognitive impairment: Accumulating evidence shows that delirium is not only a transient, reversible acute confusion but also can give rise to persistent long-term cognitive impairment - Increased mortality ## Deterrence and Patient Education To reduce delirium: - Promote sleep hygiene - Mobilize patient early