another preexisting, evolving, or established neurocognitive disorder. The underlying cause of delirium can vary widely and involve anything that stresses the baseline homeostasis of a vulnerable patient. Examples include substance intoxication or withdrawal, medication side effects, infection, surgery, metabolic derangements, pain, or even simple conditions such as constipation or urinary retention. The diagnosis is often missed due to its subtle clinical manifestation, especially in the hypoactive type.[1] Delirium is dangerous, often preventable, and associated with a significant cost burden and increased morbidity and mortality.[2] Efforts should focus on prevention, early detection, and treatment of the underlying cause. This activity reviews the evaluation and management of delirium and the role of interprofessional team members in collaborating to provide well-coordinated care and improve patient outcomes. ## Etiology Delirium is a manifestation of stress on the function of the central nervous system in a vulnerable patient. The pathophysiology is not fully understood, and there is likely no single etiology. Multiple theories describe the potential pathophysiologic causes of delirium, and any single case of delirium probably involves one or more of these theories in a complex and interconnected process. Multifactorial models have been accepted, describing delirium as an interaction of a vulnerable patient with predisposing factors exposed to noxious insults or precipitant factors.[3] There are 2 risk factors related to delirium: predisposing and precipitant factors. The most common predisposing factors are older age (older than 70 years), dementia (often not recognized clinically), functional disabilities, male gender, poor vision and hearing, and mild cognitive impairment. Alcohol use disorder and laboratory abnormalities have also been associated with an increased risk.[4] Precipitating factors vary. However, medication side effects account for up to 39% of delirium cases.[5] Many medications can precipitate delirium, especially psychoactive medications or anticholinergic drugs. Helpful references have been developed to aid healthcare providers in avoiding drugs that can precipitate delirium. The American Geriatric Society has published the "2019 Updated AGS Beers Criteria for Potentially Inappropriate Medication Use in Older Adults".[6] It is a list of medications with potentially harmful side effects for the elderly population, including those likely to cause delirium. A second helpful resource is the website "ACBcalc.com." This website reports the cumulative anticholinergic burden of a patient's medications and offers alternatives with lower anticholinergic activity.[7] Other precipitating factors include surgery, anesthesia, hypoxia, untreated pain, infections, acute illness, and an acute exacerbation of chronic illness. If the patient is highly vulnerable, possibly a