device. ## Differential Diagnosis - Cardiac tamponade - Acute pericarditis - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - Restrictive cardiomyopathy ## Staging NYHA Classification of heart failure 1. Stage A: Having risk factors for developing CHF including hypertension, diabetes, CAD, and a family history of cardiomyopathy 1. Stage B: Asymptomatic heart failure; having left ventricular systolic dysfunction, prior MI, asymptomatic valvular disease 1. Stage C: Symptomatic heart failure: having dyspnea, reduced exercise tolerance, and fatigue 1. Stage D: Refractory end-stage heart failure with symptoms at rest despite maximal medical therapy and recurrent admissions ## Prognosis Overall, the prognosis of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy is guarded. Most patients eventually end up with chronic heart failure. Many become candidates for a heart transplant or an assist device which also adds more morbidity. The progression to heart failure depends on the ejection fraction and cause of the disease. Almost 50% of patients are dead within 5 years. Negative prognostic factors include advanced NYHA classification, male sex, severe CHF, and renal failure. Individuals who have symptoms at rest and/or unable to exercise usually have the poorest prognosis. Peak V02 levels are now often used to predict mortality; those with high V02 levels tend to have a far better prognosis than those with low levels. With optimal medical therapy, patients with mild CHF can have a reasonably good quality of life. ## Complications - Congestive heart failure - Cerebrovascular accident - Valvular heart disease - Abnormal cardiac rhythms - Sudden cardiac death - Thromboembolism ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care All patients with dilated cardiomyopathy need intense education on the diet. Both salt and water restrictions are necessary to prevent symptoms. Patients should remain physically active or enroll in a cardiac rehab program. Regular cardiac rehabilitation can lower the mortality rate by 20%, relieve symptoms and reduce adverse cardiac events. ## Consultations - Cardiac surgeon - Cardiologist - Critical care specialist - Dietitian ## Deterrence and Patient Education Patient education regarding medication compliance, dietary restrictions and regular follow-up, is critical for management of dilated cardiomyopathy. ## Pearls and Other Issues 1. Unlike the past when all patients with DCM were empirically treated with anticoagulation, today the guidelines recommend the use of anticoagulants only in patients with atrial fibrillation, prosthetic heart valves, or known mural thrombus. 1. When there is progressive end-stage heart failure despite maximal medical therapy and the prognosis is deemed poor, one may consider a heart transplant. 1.