cause. DCM can have a familial or genetic predisposition although these cases are usually classified under idiopathic if no clear genetic link is identified. DCM has been associated with mutations in genes for Desmin (cytoskeletal), Lamin C (nuclear membrane), or Myosin (contractile proteins). The secondary causes include infectious myocarditis (e.g., viral, Chagas disease, Lyme disease), ischemic disease, hypertension, medication-induced (e.g., Anthracyclines), alcohol abuse, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), peripartum cardiomyopathy, or infiltrative disease. Ischemic cardiomyopathy caused by coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most common cause of congestive heart failure. However, ischemic cardiomyopathy is classified as its own disease entity and is only described as a cause of DCM in occult disease in patients without known CAD. Stress cardiomyopathy, also known as Takotsubo cardiomyopathy or Broken heart syndrome, is a relatively uncommon but increasingly reported cause. However, it is often classified as its own entity separate from primary DCM. It is characterized by transient ballooning of the left ventricular (LV) apex typically following a severe psychological or physiological stress that is believed to be secondary to intense catecholamine surge.[4] ## Epidemiology DCM is more commonly seen in men than in women. Its prevalence in the general population is estimated at 36 cases per 100,000. DCM accounts for 10,000 deaths and 46,000 hospitalizations in the United States annually. These figures may underestimate the true prevalence because many patients are asymptomatic and, therefore, undiagnosed despite LV dysfunction. [5][2] ## Pathophysiology Many cases of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) are due to idiopathic etiology. But, it also can arise from various myocardial insults. Enlargement of the ventricles can either be secondary to LV failure or secondary to a primary cardiomyopathic process and can be associated with both systolic and diastolic dysfunction. Reduction in systolic function is believed to be caused by myocardial remodeling that results in an increase in both end-systolic and end-diastolic volumes. The progressive dilatation of the ventricles leads to significant tricuspid and mitral valve insufficiency, which further lower the ejection fraction and increase the ventricular wall stress and end systolic volumes. Early compensatory mechanisms include an increase in heart rate and tone of the peripheral vascular system. However, these compensatory mechanisms lead to geometric remodeling of the ventricles and eventually this leads to worsening of the myocardial injury. At the same time, there is neurohumoral activation of the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system and an increase in circulating levels of catecholamines. In addition, levels of