disease. In regards to the former, a re-evaluation of the patient's ejection fraction with echocardiography, especially in those with acute heart failure exacerbations, would provide important information to better treat the patient. Finally, the evaluation of patent foramen ovale in those with cerebrovascular accidents (CVA).[8] One of the common causes of CVA is cardioembolic disease. Echocardiography with "bubble study" is a way to evaluate for a patent foramen ovale (PFO). Agitated saline is injected into the heart chambers, and flow across the atrium is evaluated for a defect. This defect may require surgical closure. Bedside echocardiography has many indications in addition to the above listed. Since the early 1990s, bedside echocardiography use by intensivists and emergency medicine physicians has been increasing. Bedside echocardiography is routinely employed in critically ill patients who may or may not have previously diagnosed cardiac disease, but now require vascular support. Bedside echocardiography in the undifferentiated shortness breath can help elucidate cardiac failure vs. pericardial effusion vs. non-cardiac etiology. Some of the most common indications for bedside echocardiography include suspicion for pulmonary embolism, hypotension or respiratory failure of unknown etiology, complications after cardiothoracic surgery, identifications of pericardial effusion, and evaluation of right ventricular dysfunction.[9] The indications for the use of stress echocardiography is the suspicion for coronary artery disease. This includes patients with stable angina with intermediate probability for coronary artery disease, with a pre-test probability of 15% to 85%.[10] This includes Suspected CAD with negative cardiac troponin and/or non-diagnostic ECG. If a patient has unstable angina and/or increasing troponin levels, the decision may be made to proceed with Percutaneous Coronary Intervention instead of stress testing. Transesophageal Echocardiography (TEE) is used because it provides a superior imaging quality of the posterior heart chambers and structures when compared to TTE, can be used during coronary artery bypass graft surgery, aids in placement of transcatheter devices, and may be performed at the bedside in clinically ill patients.[11] This includes assessing valvular structures when the diagnosis of Infective endocarditis is suspected, or pre-operative evaluations of thrombus prior to cardioversion. TTE is a good initiate test of choice to evaluate cardiac structures for vegetation seen in infective endocarditis; however, if clinical suspicion is high, a TEE must be obtained to properly evaluate the valves and associated valvular structures. Intracardiac echocardiography (ICE) is used during transcatheter cardiac interventions. This includes closure of atrial septal defects, catheter-directed biopsy, thrombectomies, and during electrophysiological