STR imaging with dobutamine has been shown to improve the diagnostic and prognostic evaluation of ischemia and post-myocardial infarction scar tissue formation.[15] It is important to understand that STR imaging can be applied to other forms of echocardiography; this includes TEE, TTE, and 3D echocardiography. It is an adjunct to improve visualization of wall motion defects. 3-dimensional (3D) Echocardiography: The use of traditional 2D echocardiography is limited due to foreshortened views of the ventricles and atria, and this can underestimate volumes.[30] 3D imaging allows the user to select images that are not foreshortened, which eliminates the geometric assumptions performed when assessing ventricular and atrial volumes. 3D echocardiography can further improve the visualization of shapes and spatial relationships between cardiac structures, as well as improve the visualization and function of valves and valvular structure.[30] Qiangjun et al. describe a case of hepatic metastasis to the tricuspid and pulmonic valve, in which 2D echocardiography only visualized severe tricuspid and pulmonary regurgitation. However, 3D echocardiography was able to detect fixed, retracted, and thickened valves during the cardiac cycle; this utility provided significant data to the practitioners to allow for the diagnosis of metastatic disease.[31] The left atrial appendage is the most common place where thrombi form in patients with atrial fibrillation, and in those with a contraindication to anticoagulation, a left atrial appendage closure device such as a Watchman device may be placed. Interventional cardiologists are able to use 3D echocardiography to simulate the procedure morphology prior to placing the closure device.[30] 3D echocardiography is an invaluable tool that is being used more frequently with all forms of echocardiography to improve clinical assessments. Contrast Echocardiography: When a patient has an embolic cerebrovascular accident, the most common origin is cardioembolic. Contrast-enhanced echocardiography is performed to assess for the presence of a patent foramen ovale, which may require surgical closure.[18] Agitated saline is used as a contrast media and injected into the right atrium, which is routinely called a "bubble study," TTE is performed to detect the passing of the bubbles from the right atrium to the left atrium. When a patient is to undergo cardioversion for arrhythmia and has not been anticoagulated for at least three weeks, a TEE is often performed to identify possible left atrial appendage thrombus and prevent dislodgement during cardioversion. Echocardiography contrast may obscure the visualization of a thrombus; on the other hand, hypoechogenic thrombi may be obscured during standard