wall motion abnormalities. Physical stresses may include running on a treadmill, and pharmacological stress, including medications.[3] When higher resolution imaging of cardiac structures, including valves, is required, transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) is considered. TEE is more invasive than standard TTE, as it requires the insertion of a probe into the patient's esophagus to obtain images not hindered by the patient's chest wall, including; muscle, tissue, and bone. When more accurate and even higher-resolution imaging is needed, during intracardiac procedures, intracardiac echocardiography (ICE) is an option that can be considered. Echocardiography is a low cost, at times minimally invasive, and readily available test that can provide information that can change the treatment course, and in some cases, provide real-time life-saving information. Many of the clinical uses of echocardiography are multidisciplinary in practice, and the overlap between the different utilities of echocardiogram is large. The addition of contrast to echocardiography, or the addition of strain to TTE are all examples of combinations of these utilities. The utilization of echocardiography is vast and can be applied in a variety of ways and a wide range of situations, and these forms will be discussed in detail. ## Anatomy and Physiology Echocardiography is one of the most commonly used, non-invasive method for looking at cardiac anatomy. Echocardiography is used to provide thin cross-sections of cardiac structures, this includes; left and right atrium, left and right ventricles, valves, and associated valvular structures.[4] The integration of doppler to echocardiography allows clinicians to assess cardiovascular hemodynamics, including blood flow across valves to diagnose valvular stenosis and/or regurgitation.[5] An important aspect of anatomy and physiology that is evaluated on echocardiography is the function of cardiac muscle during systole and diastole. The assessment of cardiac muscle during contractions is the bases of stress testing.[3] Those patients whose stress echocardiogram is positive for wall motion abnormalities would be considered for more invasive procedures, including cardiac catheterization. There are four standard views of the heart chambers that are evaluated when using TTE; these include parasternal long axis, parasternal short axis, apical four-chamber, and subxiphoid. The parasternal long-axis view is obtained by placing the probe left of the sternum at the 4th intercostal space perpendicular to the chest wall. As the heart is rotated left in the chest, the initial chamber visualized is the right ventricular; however, views of the left ventricle left atrium, and aortic outflow tract is also obtained, as well as