cardiovascular complications, including heart attacks, strokes, and heart failure during the same hospitalization.[11] Patients with preeclampsia have also been found to have an increased risk of several long-term conditions, including metabolic disorders, renal disease, and cardiovascular disease. Furthermore, the increased cardiovascular risk has also been demonstrated in the children of these patients.[10] Additionally, individuals with a history of eclampsia are more likely to develop seizure disorders later in life, though the absolute risk is low. Moreover, patients with eclampsia tend to report more daily cognitive challenges, memory loss, concentration difficulties, anxiety, depression, persistent headaches, vertigo, and visual disturbances compared to patients who had normotensive pregnancies.[11] ## Complications Eclampsia increases the risk of complications, including: - Placental abruption - HELLP syndrome - Disseminated intravascular coagulation - Pulmonary edema - Aspiration pneumonia - Cardiopulmonary arrest - Acute renal failure - Blood transfusion - Venous thromboembolism [11] ## Deterrence and Patient Education Patients diagnosed with hypertension or preeclampsia during pregnancy, as well as their family members, need to be educated on the signs and symptoms of eclampsia. They must be instructed to call emergency services immediately and bring the patient to the hospital as soon as possible. Patients should be counseled about the importance of their hypertensive medication and should regularly follow up with their obstetrician. **Eclampsia Prevention** Primary and secondary preventative strategies have been recommended to decrease the occurrence of eclampsia. Low-dose aspirin (60 to 150 mg daily) is a primary prevention of eclampsia, focused on stopping the disease before it starts. This intervention has been shown to reduce the risk of preeclampsia by 10% to 15%. Secondary prevention consists of early disease detection and mitigation of adverse events. Strategies for the secondary prevention of eclampsia include weekly monitoring of patients with gestational hypertension or preeclampsia, including blood pressure measurements, laboratory studies, fetal growth measurements, blood pressure regulation, timely delivery, and magnesium sulfate seizure prophylaxis. Magnesium sulfate is also utilized to prevent recurrent seizures and reduce the risk of maternal death. While the exact mechanisms of magnesium sulfate are unclear, it is believed to work by acting as a vasodilator, protecting the blood-brain barrier, reducing cerebral edema, and functioning as a central anticonvulsant.[11] ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Eclampsia is a severe medical condition that demands swift diagnosis and intervention to minimize risks for the mother and the unborn child. Effective management of eclampsia requires the coordinated efforts of an interprofessional healthcare