between the blood and the brain. Typically, the BBB maintains a stable environment for neural function by selectively allowing substances to cross and using specific ion channels and transporters to optimize conditions for synaptic signaling. Autoregulation in the cerebral circulation adjusts blood flow in response to changes in blood pressure, with vasoconstriction occurring at high pressures and vasodilation at low pressures.[11] Another proposed hypothesis is that elevated blood pressure from preeclampsia causes dysfunction of autoregulation of the cerebral vasculature, which causes hypoperfusion, endothelial damage, or edema.[15] During pregnancy, the body adapts to increased plasma volume, requiring adjustments in cerebral circulation to maintain consistent blood flow. Failure in these adaptations may increase BBB permeability, resulting in vasogenic edema, neuroinflammation, and neuronal injury. Autoregulation dysfunction may lead to acute hypertension, increasing hydrostatic pressure, reducing cerebral vascular resistance, and potentially damaging microvessels, ultimately resulting in cerebral edema and eclampsia.[3] However, the observance of eclampsia in women without severe hypertension before seizures indicates that this is not the only underlying mechanism. Other proposed mechanisms include the impact of circulating factors in preeclampsia, such as vascular endothelial growth factor and oxidized low-density lipoprotein, which may exacerbate BBB dysfunction through oxidative stress and inflammation. Additionally, theories involving cerebral vasospasm and overregulation have been proposed, though studies indicate that overperfusion, rather than vasospasm, might be more relevant to the onset of eclamptic seizures.[11] ## Histopathology Autopsy findings in eclampsia often reveal significant gross cerebral pathology, including extensive brain swelling, white matter hemorrhages, and tissue necrosis. Histologic findings observed in patients with eclampsia include perivascular edema, hemorrhage, hemosiderin deposits, small vessel thrombosis, and parenchymal necrosis. However, these histopathologic characteristics are not diagnostic of eclampsia, as they are also associated with other conditions involving systemic endothelial damage, such as atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome, hypertensive urgency or emergency, and antiphospholipid antibody syndrome.[11] ## History and Physical The classic presentation of eclampsia is generalized tonic-clonic seizures with no other underlying cause in a patient with a hypertensive pregnancy disorder. Generally, most professional societies use a blood pressure of 140/90 mm Hg or higher as the threshold for hypertension during pregnancy.[7] Additionally, eclampsia may be preceded by various symptoms, including visual disturbances, severe headaches, and epigastric pain, though these symptoms do not reliably predict its occurrence. Common visual changes include blurred vision, double vision, scotomata, flashes of light, and transient cortical blindness. Several studies have reported the most frequent symptoms associated with eclampsia