The AV node has its automaticity (typically 40-50 bpm) and can become the heart's primary pacemaker. Not uncommonly, in junctional escape rhythms, particularly when they are present due to sinus node disease, there is a retrograde P wave seen just before or during the QRS, as the AV node depolarizes the ventricle and atrium simultaneously. Ventricular escape rhythms typically occur when there is a disease in the AV node (ie, complete heart block). The intrinsic rate of the ventricles is 30 to 40 bpm. The QRS is wide because the complexes initiate in the ventricle. If there is concomitant SA node disease, there may not be P waves, but most often, there are P waves at a faster rate than the ventricular escape with no discernible relationship between the P waves and QRS complexes. Ventricular tachycardia develops from an ectopic ventricular micro- or macro-reentry focus. It can be monomorphic or polymorphic. P waves are present, but they are not associated with the QRS unless there is a capture or fusion beat, in which the atrial depolarization leads to brief depolarization of the ventricular myocardium before the ventricular focus can lead to depolarization. ## Clinical Significance The rhythm of the EKG is usually clinically significant because it affects the rate. When the heart beats too slowly, it can cause hypotension and hypoperfusion. Symptoms include fatigue, dizziness, syncope/near syncope, and exercise intolerance.[9] Rapid heart rates can cause palpitations, dizziness, lightheadedness, and syncope because of decreased cardiac output. Accurate rhythm identification is important because treatment directly depends on what type of rhythm the patient has. Recognizing the underlying cause of an arrhythmia is always indicated, and sometimes it is the only treatment necessary for the patient. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Fast and accurate rhythm identification is an important skill for medical professionals in many disciplines. EKGs are performed in the prehospital setting, physicians' offices, emergency department, surgery, and hospital. The healthcare team is responsible for recognizing potentially dangerous rhythms to ensure proper patient care before it becomes life-threatening. Quick and accurate rhythm identification by anybody in the healthcare team can improve morbidity and mortality in any of these patients. It is important to look at the patient as a whole when interpreting EKG rhythms since the knowledge of an individual patient on whom an EKG is ordered may result in a more critical rhythm assessment and might account for the higher accuracy