(typically the right bundle). The atrial rate of atrial flutter is typically about 300 beats per minute, and the ventricular response can be variable but often presents initially as a 2:1 AV block, resulting in a ventricular response of about 150 BPM. Any time there is a regular rhythm with a narrow QRS complex at 130 to 170 BPM, atrial flutter should be considered. Atrial tachycardia is a rhythm that originates in a single micro reentry focus in the atria. This is seen on EKG with a P wave of different morphology than the sinus P wave. The rhythm is regular, and the QRS complex is narrow. The P axis can also differ, resulting in inverted P waves in inferior leads. Since this is from a single focus, the P waves are uniform throughout this rhythm, and it can be paroxysmal (comes and goes) or sustained.[5] The rate is typically 130 to 170 BPM. Whereas atrial tachycardia is due to a single ectopic focus in the atrium, wandering atrial pacemaker and MAT are due to multiple microreentry foci in the atrium. If the ventricular rate is less than 100 bpm, it is considered a wandering atrial pacemaker; if the ventricular rate is greater than 100 bpm, it is considered MAT. In both of these rhythms, there are 3 or more atrial foci. On EKG, this is defined as 3 distinct P wave morphologies and 3 different PR intervals. The QRS is typically narrow unless there is an underlying ventricular conduction delay. Since the multiple foci are firing independently, these rhythms may appear irregularly. AVNRT occurs when 2 pathways within the AV node have varying conduction and repolarization rates. When the node is stimulated, typically by a premature atrial complex (PAC), when the slowly conducting pathway has repolarized, but the rapidly conducting pathway has not, AVNRT can ensue. When the slowly conducting pathway reaches the ventricle, the QRS is seen, and the nodal fast pathway then conducts back up to the atrium, creating reentry within the AV node itself. This cycle repeats itself and is seen on EKG as a regular, fast rhythm, usually about 150 BPM, with a narrow QRS complex. Retrograde P waves (P waves that occur after the QRS complex) are often seen only at the tail end of the QRS. This is often most easily seen in lead V1 as what is referred to as a pseudo