R. AVRT utilizes a pathologic accessory pathway between the atria and ventricles to create a macro reentry circuit. This can be orthodromic (retrograde conduction is through the accessory pathway, and antegrade conduction is through the AV node) or antidromic (retrograde conduction is through the AV node, and antegrade conduction is through the accessory pathway). In AVRT, you typically see a normal, fast rhythm, usually around 150 bpm, with narrow QRS complexes. In AVRT, however, you often see preexcitation in the resting sinus rhythm EKG. Preexcitation, also called a delta wave, is due to a brief period of slow ventricular activation through the accessory pathway before the AV node releases the impulse to the bundle of His, thus leading to normal conduction and a narrow finish of the QRS. This also causes a shortened PR interval.[6][7] PACs are commonly found on EKGs. They are due to an ectopic focus within the atrium firing earlier than the sinus node. P wave morphology and PR interval for this premature atrial beat are usually different than the sinus P wave, though it may be similar if the focus is close to the SA node. While the RR interval between the last beat and the ectopic beat is shorter than normal, the interval between the last and next sinus beat is typically shorter than 2 normal R-R lengths because of an incomplete compensatory pause. After all, the PAC depolarizes the SA node. Premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) occur when an ectopic focus in the ventricles fires. Since the impulse originates in a ventricle, it is slowly conducted through the ventricles, resulting in a wide QRS complex. Like other premature contractions, these occur during other rhythms. There is no P wave before the ectopic beat, and there is typically a compensatory pause such that the length of 2 normal R-R intervals is preserved. This is because the PVC does not depolarize the SA node, and the SA node continues to fire at its regular intervals. PVCs are typically benign and occur in healthy and unhealthy individuals. When PVCs occur every other beat, it is referred to as ventricular bigeminy; when they occur every third beat, it is referred to as ventricular trigeminy.[8] Junctional escape rhythms occur either when there is sinus node disease with a very slow or nonexistent atrial rhythm (sick sinus syndrome) or when there is a complete heart block high in the AV node.