or depression of the ST segment by 1 mm or more, measured at J point, is abnormal. A J point is a region between the QRS complex and the ST segment. ST-elevation is highly specific if present in two or more contiguous leads in the setting of acute myocardial infarction. If the vertical distance on the ECG trace and the baseline after the J-point is at least 1 mm in a limb lead or 2 mm in a precordial lead, it is clinically significant for diagnosing acute myocardial infarction. Correct ST segment interpretation is crucial as a type of ST-segment elevation is present in healthy individuals due to early repolarization, called J-point elevation. It is distinguished by the fact that the T wave does not merge with the ST segment and remains an independent wave. Several other disorders are also associated with ST-elevation, i.e., Prinzmetal angina, acute pericarditis, acute myocarditis, hyperkalemia, blunt trauma, pulmonary embolism, subarachnoid hemorrhage, Brugada syndrome, ventricular aneurysm, and left bundle branch block.[47][48][49] ST-elevations are diffuse in acute pericarditis and associated with PR-depression about TP-segments (except for leads V1 and aVR).[50][51][52][53] In myocardial infarction, the ST elevation tends to be localized (inferior, anterior, posterior, lateral), often, but not always, with reciprocal ST depression.[54] Secondly, the PR segment displacement is attributable to the subepicardial atrial injury. PR elevation can present in aVR, and PR depression is best seen in II, aVF, and V4-V6. PR-depression and slight downsloping appearance of TP segments are often known as Spodick sign of pericarditis and help distinguish acute pericarditis from acute MI.[54] ST depression greater than 1 mm is often a sign of myocardial ischemia or angina. It can appear as a downsloping, upsloping, or horizontal segment on the ECG. A horizontal or downsloping ST depression greater than 0.5 mm at the J-point in two contiguous leads indicates myocardial ischemia. An upsloping ST depression in the precordial leads with prominent De Winter T waves is highly indicative of MI caused by occlusion of the left anterior descending artery.[55] ST depression can represent a reciprocal change with a morphology that resembles "upside-down" ST elevation and is typically seen in leads electrically opposite to the site of infarction. For example, posterior wall MI manifests as horizontal ST depression in leads V1-3 and is associated with tall R waves and upright T waves. Likewise, inferior wall STEMI produces reciprocal ST depression in leads I and aVL,