atropine (emergently) or cardiac pacing. In type II AV block, there is a dropped beat without the progressive lengthening of the PR interval.[40] It follows the all-or-nothing phenomenon. It usually occurs below the AV node at the level of the bundle of His. It clinically signifies a severe underlying heart disease that can progress to third-degree heart block. When diagnosed, it usually requires prompt treatment with a permanent pacemaker. - Third-degree heart block is characterized by a complete electrical dissociation between the atria and ventricles, resulting in the atria and the ventricles beating at their intrinsic rates. Degenerative disease of the conduction system is the leading cause of third-degree heart block. A complete heart block may present in acute myocardial infarction.[41] Complete heart block may be reversible with prompt revascularization, especially in inferior MI. Lyme disease may be associated with a complete heart block and is potentially reversible with antibiotic therapy. In the case of irreversible or permanent complete heart block, a permanent pacemaker remains the mainstay of the treatment. - Bundle branch block results from the conduction block of either left or right bundle branches. It gets diagnosed by examining the width and configuration of the QRS complexes. The right bundle branch block is represented on the ECG by the presence of a widened QRS complex greater than 0.12 seconds, along with an RSR pattern in V1 and V2. Also, there may be ST-segment depression and T wave inversions and reciprocal changes in leads V5, V6, I, and aVL. Conduction system disorders can cause the right bundle branch block, but it may be present as a standard variant in specific individuals. The left bundle branch block is represented on the ECG by a widened QRS complex greater than 0.12 seconds, broad or notched R wave with prolonged upstroke in the leads V5, V6, I, and aVL, along with ST-segment depression and T wave inversion, and reciprocal changes in leads V1 and V2. Usually, a left-axis deviation is also present. The left bundle branch usually signifies an underlying pathology, such as degenerative disease of the conduction system or ischemic heart disease.[42] **QRS Complex** It represents ventricular depolarization as current passes down the AV node. A standard QRS complex has a duration of less than three small squares (under 120 ms, usually 60 to 100 ms). A prolonged QRS may indicate hyperkalemia or bundle branch block. Conversely, a premature ventricular contraction