handheld device that can review ECG rhythms and intervals at the bedside for analysis. With the evolution of technology, there are electronic wristwatches that can also monitor the heart rate and rhythm and have proven to be of value in detecting atrial fibrillation.[20] However, the accuracy of these devices may be somewhat inferior compared to a 12-lead ECG. When prompted for abnormal findings, these require confirmation by standardized clinical testing available in the cardiology office. The equipment for performing a conventional 12-lead ECG includes: - Electrodes (sensors) - Gauze and skin preparation (alcohol rub) solution - Razors, clippers, or a roll of tape (for hair removal) - Skin adhesive and/or antiperspirant - ECG paper - Cardiac monitor or electrocardiography machine ## Personnel Any medical personnel who has received training on conducting an electrocardiogram can obtain an ECG, including a doctor, nurse, qualified technician, etc. Usually, it is performed by the technicians in clinics or hospitals and then interpreted by clinicians. Often, these findings are confirmed by a cardiologist in a hospital-based setting. ## Preparation Electrocardiogram requires special preparation. Before the procedure, a brief history regarding drugs and allergies to adhesive gel is necessary. The temperature of the room must be kept optimal to avoid shivering. The patient should be in a gown, and electrode sites identified. For good contact between the body surface and electrodes, it is advised to shave the chest hair and then apply the electrocardiographic adhesive gel to the electrodes. Any metallic object, like jewelry or a watch, requires removal. Limb and precordial leads should be accurately placed to avoid vector misinterpretation. Finally, the patient must lie down and relax before recording the standard 10-second strip. ## Technique or Treatment Electrocardiogram machines are designed to record changes in electrical activity by drawing a trace on a moving electrocardiograph paper. The electrocardiograph moves at a speed of 25 mm/sec. Time is plotted on the x-axis and voltage on the y-axis. On the x-axis, 1 second is divided into five large squares, each representing 0.2 sec. Each large square is further divided into five small squares of 0.04 sec each. The ECG machine is calibrated in such a way that an increase of voltage by one mVolt should move the stylus by 1 cm. The conventional 12-lead ECG consisting of six limbs and six precordial leads is organized into ten wires.[21] The limb leads include I, II, III, aVL,