analysis of arrhythmias, and monitoring for delivery of the appropriate electrical pacing in patients with defibrillators and pacemakers[11] - Evaluation of metabolic disorders - Helpful for the assessment of blunt cardiac trauma[12] - Cardiopulmonary resuscitation - Valuable aid in the study and differential diagnosis of congenital heart diseases[13] - Electrolyte imbalance and rhythm disorders[14] - To monitor the pharmacotherapeutic effects and adverse effects of drug therapy - Perioperative anesthesia monitoring, such as preoperative assessment and intraoperative and postoperative monitoring - Screening tool in a sports physical exam to rule out cardiomyopathy[15] ## Contraindications There are no absolute contraindications for an electrocardiogram. The relative contraindications to its use include: - Patient refusal - Allergy to the adhesive used to affix the leads ## Equipment The American College of Cardiology (ACC), in conjunction with American Heart Association (AHA) and the Heart Rhythm Society (HRS), has formulated guidelines and set technical standards for ECG equipment.[16] With advancements, most ECG machines have become digital and can autogenerate preliminary findings based on the morphology criteria. The conventional ECG machine consists of 12 leads divided into two groups, i.e., limb leads and precordial leads. Limb leads are further categorized as standard bipolar limb leads (I, II, and III) and augmented unipolar leads (aVL, aVF, and aVR). The precordial leads include V1 to V6. The limb leads view the heart in a vertical plane, and the precordial leads record the heart's electrical activity in the horizontal plane. The ECG represents a graphic recording of the electrical cardiac activity traced on the electrocardiograph paper.[17] The fundamental principle behind recording an ECG is an electromagnetic force, current, or vector with both magnitude and direction. When a depolarization current travels towards the electrode, it gets recorded as a positive deflection, and when it moves away from the electrode, it appears as a negative deflection. - A current of repolarization traveling away from the positive electrode is seen as a positive deflection and towards a positive electrode as a negative deflection. - When the current is perpendicular to the electrode, it touches the baseline and produces a biphasic wave. These concepts are easily applied to the heart while recording the ECG. Several types of ECG monitoring equipment are available, including continuous ECG monitoring, hardwire cardiac monitoring, telemetry, ambulatory electrocardiography, transtelephonic monitoring, wireless mobile cardiac monitoring systems, etc.[18][19] Furthermore, a duo of ECG and electronic stethoscopes have been designed into a portable,