indicate first-degree AV block, and short interval may be present in conditions with accelerated AV conduction, such as the presence of bypass tract or Wolf-Parkinson-White syndrome and Lown-Ganong-Levine syndrome. **Heart Block** A conduction block can occur due to any obstruction in the normal pathway of electrical conduction. Their anatomical location can be categorized as sinus node, atrioventricular node, or bundle branch blocks. - Sinus node or sinoatrial exit block occurs due to failed propagation of the impulses beyond the SA node resulting in dropped P waves on the ECG. Common causes include sick sinus syndrome, increased vagal tone, inferior wall MI, vagal stimulation, myocarditis, drugs including digoxin, beta-blockers, etc.[36] - Atrioventricular or AV block is a conduction block that can occur anywhere between the SA node and Purkinje fibers. There are three variants of AV blocks: first-degree, second-degree, and third-degree. Clinically significant points in diagnosing the AV blocks include careful measurement of the PR interval and examining the relationship of the P waves to QRS complexes. - First-degree heart block is defined as prolonging the PR interval by more than 200 milliseconds.[37] A single P wave precedes every QRS complex. It may be a normal finding in some individuals. Still, it can be an early sign of degenerative disease of the conduction system or a transient manifestation of myocarditis or drug toxicity, hypokalemia, acute rheumatic fever, etc. It usually does not require any treatment.[38] - Second-degree heart block is of two types, i.e., Mobitz type I (also known as Wenkebach block) and Mobitz type II. In type I, the block across the AV node or bundle of His is variable and increases with each ensuing impulse, ultimately resulting in a drop of the impulse (usually every third or fourth impulse). On ECG, it shows a progressive prolongation of the PR interval, and then suddenly, a P wave is not followed by the QRS complex.[39] This sequence regularly repeats itself. Most patients with Mobitz type I second-degree AV block are asymptomatic. Mobitz type I AV block may occur in the setting of acute myocardial ischemia or myocarditis. It may also result in clinical deterioration if the resulting ventricular rate is inadequate to maintain cardiac output. Most patients with Mobitz type I second-degree AV block are asymptomatic and do not require specific intervention. Rarely patients with Mobitz type I block are symptomatic and demonstrate hemodynamic instability, and may require treatment with either