II, aVF, and V1, require inspection for an accurate interpretation of rhythm. It involves looking for five points: the presence or absence of regular P waves, the duration of QRS complexes (narrow or wide), the correlation between P waves and QRS complexes, whether the rhythm is regular or irregular, and the morphology of P waves. A regular rhythm ECG has regular P waves preceding a QRS complex in a regular rhythm. Also, normal sinus rhythm demonstrates positive P waves in leads I, II, and aVF, suggesting a downward propagation of atrial activation from the SA node. These features also help identify if the arrhythmia originates in the atria or ventricles.[28] Many disorders are related to rhythm abnormalities. For example, no real P waves can be seen in atrial fibrillation due to the very fast atrial activity. Only a few impulses get delivered to ventricles making the rhythm irregularly irregular. The presence of 'irregularly irregular' narrow QRS complexes with no discrete P waves is the hallmark feature in the identification of atrial fibrillation. **Cardiac Axis** It refers to the direction of the heart's depolarization wavefront in the frontal plane. The cardiac axis is related to the area of significant muscle bulk within the healthy conducting system. A typical cardiac axis is between -30 to +90 degrees. A quick way to estimate the axis is by looking at leads I and aVF. It can be defined as a normal axis when the QRS complex is positive in leads I and aVF. A left axis deviation (between 0 and -90 degrees) is defined by the presence of positive QRS in the lead I and negative in lead aVF, and a right axis deviation (+90 and 180 degrees) by the presence of negative QRS in the lead I and positive in the lead aVF. If both QRS complexes are negative in leads I and aVF, it is an extreme right-axis deviation or indeterminate axis (-90 to 180 degrees).[29] Other methods used to determine the cardiac axis include three-lead analysis, isoelectric lead analysis, etc. There are several disorders in which the cardiac axis deviates. Examples include old inferior myocardial infarction, left ventricular hypertrophy, and left bundle branch block where left axis deviation occurs while noting right axis deviation in conditions including right ventricular hypertrophy, pulmonary hypertension, hyperkalemia, and wolf-Parkinson-White syndrome, etc. The specific criteria on ECG for atrial and ventricular hypertrophy are devised from examining