due to obstruction of the pulmonary vascular bed, leading to a mismatch in the ventilation-to-perfusion ratio because alveolar ventilation remains the same. Still, pulmonary capillary blood flow decreases, leading to dead space ventilation and hypoxemia. Also, mediators, eg, serotonin, are released, which cause vasospasm and further decrease pulmonary flow in unaffected lung areas. Local accumulation of inflammatory mediators alters lung surfactant and stimulates respiratory drive, resulting in hypocapnia and respiratory alkalosis.[16] In PE, pulmonary vascular resistance increases due to the mechanical obstruction of the vascular bed with thrombus and hypoxic vasoconstriction. Pulmonary artery pressure increases if thromboembolic occlusion is >30% to 50% of the total cross-sectional area of the pulmonary arterial bed. Increased pulmonary vascular resistance increases the right ventricular afterload, which impedes right ventricular outflow and causes right ventricular dilation and flattening or bowing of the interventricular septum. Developing the right bundle branch block may increase the desynchronization of the ventricles. The decreased right ventricular outflow and concomitant right ventricular dilation reduce left ventricular filling, compromising cardiac output.[17] As a result, left ventricular filling is reduced in early diastole, reducing cardiac output and causing systemic hypotension and hemodynamic instability. Right ventricle failure due to acute pressure overload is the primary cause of death in severe PE. Given the above pathophysiological considerations, clinical symptoms and signs of overt right ventricular failure and hemodynamic instability indicate a high risk of early (in-hospital or 30-day) mortality. Additionally, the early literature suggested that patients with underlying cardiac disease were at the greatest risk for developing a pulmonary infarction associated with acute PE, as poor collateral circulation, in combination with pulmonary thromboembolism, was thought to result in infarction.[18] However, recent studies suggest the opposite. Specifically, younger patients without cardiopulmonary disease were found to be more likely to suffer a pulmonary infarction secondary to PE. Experts hypothesize that longstanding local tissue hypoxia from chronic cardiopulmonary disease states leads to more robust bronchial vascular collateralization, protecting parenchyma from infarction.[7] The lung parenchyma receives its oxygen supply from 3 nonredundant sources: deoxygenated blood from pulmonary arteries, oxygenated blood from the bronchial circulation, and direct oxygen diffusion from alveoli.[19] A sufficient impedance from one of these sources can cause infarction and subsequent tissue necrosis. Inflammatory mediators from ischemic parenchyma can further limit gas exchange following the resultant vasoconstriction and bronchoconstriction.[20] When ischemia of lung tissue is not reversed promptly, infarction ensues. A unilateral infarct occurs in 77% to