is not recommended. However, long-term aspirin is recommended. - Structural and functional ventricular diseases: - Ventricular aneurysms - Septal aneurysms - General ventricular hypokinesia (heart failure with reduced ejection fraction): The annual rate of stroke in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) is approximately 2%, with a direct correlation between the risk of a stroke, and the degree of ventricular compromise.[7] - Myocardial infarction: The occurrence of myocardial infarction increases the risk of the development of a stroke, with the degree of left ventricular dysfunction, the presence of a ventricular aneurysm or mural thrombus, and the presence of arrhythmias significantly influencing the degree of risk. Approximately 2.5% of cases will develop a stroke within the first four weeks of the infarction, and nearly 10% will over six years.[4] ## Epidemiology Cardioembolic strokes appear to occur more frequently with increasing age. Studies have estimated that they account for 14.6% of cases below the age of 65 years, but this proportion has gone up to 36% for patients aged 85 years and older.[4] About 20% of strokes are considered to cardioembolic. The risk of these strokes increases with age. ## Pathophysiology As with any thrombus, the fundamental pathophysiology is vested within Virchow's triad. Stasis of blood, as occurs with ventricular akinesia or aneurysms, predisposes to thrombus formation. Similarly, the lack of atrial contractility in atrial fibrillation results in an increased predisposition to clot formation, particularly in the left atrial appendage. These thrombi can either remain indolent and later undergo organization or embolize to systemic circulation - stroke is a potential consequence. With atrial fibrillation, this risk is greatest when converting a patient back to sinus rhythm. The endothelial injury that accompanies valvular lesions also predisposes to hypercoagulability and thrombus formation, with similar potential consequences. The cardiac emboli may consist of cholesterol, thrombus, platelet thrombi, calcium, or even bacterial clumps. Emboli from the heart can be distributed anywhere in the body, but more than 80% migrate to the brain. Of the emboli to the brain, the majority involve the anterior circulation, with only about 20% involving the vertebrobasilar circulation. When emboli enter the brain, they not only obstruct blood flow but may become detached and migrate further distally. Thus, reperfusion is another form of injury. ## History and Physical The classic clinical scenario is that of an abrupt onset neurologic deficit that reaches maximal intensity within minutes and then gradually