Postoperative complication rates irrespective of approach, either laparoscopic or open, are higher than for cholecystitis for gallstone disease. Postoperative complications, including wound infection, bleeding, cystic duct stump leak, and common bile duct injury, subhepatic abscess, have all been reported. Subtotal cholecystectomy is rarely is performed when the surgeon encounters pericholecystic inflammation that makes a safe dissection of the Calot's triangle impossible. In older patients or those who are too ill to undergo surgery due to associated comorbidity, a percutaneous or transhepatic radiologically guided drainage is a temporizing procedure. This initial drainage procedure often leads to a dramatic improvement in the patient's condition, which then permits an elective cholecystectomy when the patient's condition improves.[9][6] Antibiotic therapy is usually continued until the fever subsides. ## Differential Diagnosis Cholecystitis Gallstones Biliary colic ## Prognosis If empyema of the gallbladder is treated promptly, the outcomes are good. However, individuals with advanced age, those who are immunocompromised or have diabetes, usually tend to have worse outcomes compared to healthy people. The rates of conversion from laparoscopic to open cholecystectomy are much higher in the presence of empyema. Further, the postoperative complications tend to occur in more than 2 to 20% of patients and include wound infections, bile duct injury, subhepatic abscess, cystic stump leak, renal failure, acute respiratory distress syndrome, and sepsis. ## Complications - Wound infections - Bleeding - Bile duct injury - Subphrenic abscess - Acute renal failure - Cystic stump leak - Sepsis ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care Following surgery and removal of the gallbladder, IV antibiotics are required until the fever subsides and the WBC returns to normal. Most patients are discharged home on antibiotics for 1 week. ## Pearls and Other Issues Empyema of the gallbladder may present with symptoms indistinguishable from acute cholecystitis. A high index of suspicion and a combination of clinical, radiological, and laboratory parameters helps in early diagnosis. Early and prompt surgical intervention in the form of cholecystectomy, if not feasible, cholecystostomy prevents high morbidity and rare mortality. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Empyema of the gallbladder is a serious disorder that requires prompt diagnosis and treatment. The infection can quickly become systemic and cause multiple organ failure. The condition is best managed by an interprofessional team. Most patients require aggressive hydration, IV antibiotics, and surgery. There is a growing body of evidence indicating that the surgeon should remove the gallbladder within 48 to 72 hours