In patients present with an initial stage of empyema, symptoms, physical signs, and investigations may be unremarkable to distinguish from acute cholecystitis. Frequently the patient has a raised white cell count indicating an underlying infective cause. One should also obtain liver and renal function tests, coagulation profile, and a complete CBC. An ultrasound is the most commonly used radiological investigation in gallbladder disease. It is not diagnostic but can raise the suspicion of an empyema when there is a very edematous gallbladder, or there are echogenic contents in the gallbladder associated with gallstones. A CT scan can be helpful when an ultrasonogram is not contributory. A CT scan may reveal an enlarged or distended gallbladder with edematous walls and, at times, pericholecystic collection. When the diagnosis is more difficult, an MRI can be of help. A heavily T2 weighted sequence on MRI can help in distinguishing pus from sludge. An MRI may also show a fluid level with a layering of purulent bile. An increasing white blood count with a shift to the left in a patient with acute cholecystitis suggests adverse changes. The other relevant investigations are liver enzyme levels and PT (prothrombin time) and aPTT (activated partial thromboplastin time). Radiological findings alone may be insufficient for an accurate diagnosis of empyema of the gallbladder. A combination of clinical, radiological, and laboratory findings are crucial to arrive at a correct final diagnosis of empyema of the gallbladder.[8] ## Treatment / Management Prompt parenteral antibiotic therapy with urgent removal or drainage of the gallbladder should be the goal to prevent increased morbidity and the rare possibility of mortality. A broad-spectrum antibiotic, hydration, and optimizing the patient for surgery should be done ASAP. Although the conventional practice is to perform an open cholecystectomy, it is possible to achieve a laparoscopic removal of the gallbladder by experienced surgeons. Surgeons who undertake a laparoscopic approach should have a low threshold to convert to an open procedure when encountered with technical difficulties. The conversion rate from laparoscopic to open cholecystectomy is higher in empyema of the gallbladder than that in uncomplicated acute cholecystitis. The higher rate of conversion is attributed to reduced visualization or distortion of the anatomical structures in the Calot's triangle and increased bleeding due to inflamed friable tissue. An initial decompression of the distended gallbladder, either under radiological guidance or intraoperative laparoscopically guided, facilitates the more straightforward dissection of the gallbladder.