Acute exacerbations of COPD can be managed in an outpatient or inpatient setting depending on the severity. The assessment of severity is discussed in the previous section. Mild cases can be treated in the outpatient setting with bronchodilators, corticosteroids, and antibiotics. For moderate and severe cases, inpatient management is indicated. Hospitalized patients often require oxygen and bronchodilator therapy in the form of a SABA with or without a SAMA. Long-acting bronchodilators are typically used when the patient becomes stable and ready for discharge. Oral corticosteroids may be used, however, intravenous corticosteroids have not shown to be more efficacious compared to oral and instead may cause increased side effects. Intravenous corticosteroids may be considered if patients have a contraindication to oral intake (e.g., aspiration risk or continuous BiPAP therapy). Antibiotics should be considered if there is suspicion for a bacterial infection. Oxygen therapy can range from a nasal cannula to mechanical ventilation depending on the severity of the exacerbation. [1][8][22] For long-term therapy, the choice of treatment varies and should be tailored to each patient. Management is largely based on the severity of the disease and symptoms as outlined by GOLD. See **Figure 1 and Table 4** for initial and commonly used medications in the treatment of COPD. [1] Severe cases may require surgical intervention including bullectomy, lung volume reduction surgery, or lung transplantation. Surgical intervention is indicated in severe conditions where symptoms are not controlled with medical therapy alone and may improve quality of life. Pulmonary rehabilitation is indicated in all stages of COPD. It is a comprehensive plan that is tailored to patients and may involve therapies such as exercise training, education, and behavioral changes. Its purpose is to improve a patient's physical function and psychological condition. [23] ## Differential Diagnosis - Asthma - Asthma-COPD overlap syndrome - Interstitial lung disease - Bronchiolitis obliterans - Diffuse panbronchiolitis - Heart failure - Thromboembolic disease - Lymphangioleiomyomatosis - Tuberculosis - Cystic fibrosis - Bronchiectasis - Malignancy ## Prognosis The prognosis of COPD is variable based on adherence to treatment including smoking cessation and avoidance of other harmful gases. Patients with other comorbidities (e.g., pulmonary hypertension, cardiovascular disease, lung cancer) typically have a poorer prognosis. The airflow limitation and dyspnea are usually progressive. The BODE (Body-mass index (BMI), airflow Obstruction, Dyspnea, and Exercise capacity) index is a tool used to determine the risk of mortality in COPD. The BODE index is scored