mean time from onset of symptoms to death was 5.3 days (ranging from 1 to 12 days), and the mean time from exposure to death was 9.9 days (ranging from 6 to 17 days). ## Complications Complications of PAM can include the following: - Hallucinations - Seizures - Comma - Death ## Consultations The patient is managed by emergency physicians, internists, and infectious disease consultants. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Measures to prevent primary amebic meningoencephalitis due to _Naegleria_ include the following: - Avoid diving and jumping into stagnant freshwater. - Consider using nose plugs for unavoidable exposures or pinching your nose shut when diving or swimming in freshwater. - Keep your head above water when swimming in freshwater, hot springs, and other untreated thermal bodies of water. - When participating in water-related activities, avoid digging, or stirring up the sediment. - Use boiled, filtered, or sterile water for nasal or sinus irrigation, not tap water. Measures to prevent GAE and keratitis due to _Acanthamoeba_ include: - Replace contacts as prescribed. - Remove lenses before activity involving contact with water. - Wash hands with soap before handling contact lenses and clean lenses as instructed by the manufacturer. ## Pearls and Other Issues Other important information to note includes the following: - Patients with PAM typically have a history of swimming, diving, bathing, or playing in warm, generally stagnant freshwater during the previous 1 to 9 days. - GAE presents as a subacute to chronic disease process with weeks to months of progressive headache, low-grade fevers, visual disturbances, behavioral abnormalities, and focal neurologic deficits. - Two patterns of clinical presentation have been described with _Balamuthia mandrillaris._ While some patients present with an initial skin lesion followed by neurologic manifestations in weeks or months, others present with CNS involvement. The skin lesion consists of an asymptomatic nonulcerated plaque, most commonly on the central face or the knee area. Wide resection of the skin may prove to be therapeutic. - A definitive diagnosis of PAM is made by observation of motile trophozoites on centrifuged CSF wet mount preparation. - Approximately 11 survivors of PAM have been reported in the literature.[16][17] ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Amebic encephalitis is an exceptionally rare and highly lethal central nervous system infection caused by free-living amoebae found in freshwater, lakes, and rivers. There are two types of amebic encephalitis: primary amebic meningoencephalitis and granulomatous amebic encephalitis. The