olfactory and taste abnormalities is frequently associated with PAM. Patients with PAM typically have a history of swimming, diving, bathing, or playing in warm, generally stagnant freshwater during the previous 1 through 9 days. On physical examination, meningismus and cranial nerve palsies can be seen.[10] The disease progresses rapidly with increased intracranial pressure leading to uncal herniation and death.[8] The clinical presentation of GAE differs from that of PAM considerably. GAE presents as a subacute to chronic disease process with weeks to months of progressive headache, low-grade fevers, visual disturbances, behavioral abnormalities, and focal neurologic deficits. Ultimately, the patient develops increased intracranial pressure, seizures, coma, and death.[8] Among patients with human immunodeficiency virus, focal neurologic lesions mimicking toxoplasma encephalitis have also been reported.[11] ## Evaluation Lumbar puncture for CSF analysis is the primary diagnostic tool for PAM, whereas tissue diagnosis is essential for GAE. Unfortunately, amebic meningoencephalitis is very rarely diagnosed before autopsy. Laboratory findings suggestive of PAM include leukocytosis with a left shift. The CSF opening pressure is very high. The CSF white cell count ranges from 300 to 26,000 cells/mm with polymorphonuclear predominance. CSF red blood cells are usually seen, and hemorrhagic fluid is seen as the disease progresses. Hypoglycorrhachia and elevated protein are characteristic. A definitive diagnosis is made by observation of motile trophozoites on centrifuged CSF wet mount preparation. Giemsa or trichrome stains help in identifying morphologic features of the trophozoites _._ The diagnosis can also be made by using laboratory testing for _Naegleria fowleri_ nucleic acid in CSF, biopsy, or tissue specimens or _Naegleria fowleri_ antigen in CSF, biopsy, or tissue specimens. To establish the diagnosis of GAE, brain tissue demonstrating trophozoites and cysts is needed. Moderate granulomatous inflammation with prominent vascular involvement is typically present on brain biopsy. CSF parameters show mild pleocytosis with lymphocytic predominance, high protein concentration, and low or normal glucose concentration. Rarely,_Acanthamoeba_ trophozoites may be seen on the Giemsa stain of the CSF sediment. Head computed tomography scanning or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) should precede lumbar puncture if clinical signs of focal central nervous system involvement or elevated intracranial pressure are present. MRI of the brain shows the presence of single or multiple space-occupying lesions with ring enhancement. Computed tomography may show progressive hydrocephalus, meningeal thickening, pseudotumoral lesions, largely isolated lesions, or multifocal ring-enhancing lesions. On post-mortem examination, significant edema and hemorrhage of the brain are seen.[12][13][14] ## Treatment /