clinical symptoms with fewer than 4 days of antibiotic therapy.[5] It is important to note that prior antibiotic therapy may mask the histopathological evidence of infective endocarditis. Vegetation on an echocardiogram is an oscillating intracardiac mass on the valve or supporting structures, in the path of regurgitant jets. The presence of abscess or partial dehiscence of the prosthetic valve also fulfills echocardiographic criteria of infective endocarditis. A transthoracic echocardiogram should be validated by transesophageal echocardiogram in the evaluation of patients with suspected infective endocarditis whenever indicated. Significant echocardiographic findings include: - Myocardial abscess - New-onset valvular regurgitation - Oscillating intracardiac mass on a valve - Partial dehiscence of a prosthetic valve The ECG may show a conduction block or delay in about 10% of patients. A new conduction block usually indicates the involvement of the septum and is a poor prognostic sign. CT of the head is done in patients who exhibit neurological deficits. ## Treatment / Management The American Heart Association published its updated guidelines for infective endocarditis in 2015.[8] In those guidelines, specific recommendations are for the following\[8\]: - Native valve highly susceptible (MIC less than or equal to 0.12 mcg/ml) viridans group streptococci (VGS) infective endocarditis - VGS and _S. gallolyticus_ (_bovis_) with MIC greater than 0.12 to less than 0.5 mcg/ml - A defective and Granulicatella species, and VGS with penicillin MIC greater than or equal to 0.5 mcg/ml - VGS or _S. gallolyticus_ involving prosthetic material - Staphylococci, Staphylococci involving prosthetic material - Enterococci, HACEK micro-organisms - Non-HACEK gram-negative bacilli, culture-negative endocarditis, and fungi Recommendations for antimicrobial therapy, according to the causative pathogen are complex and well summarized in the 2015 American Heart Association practice guidelines.[8] Treatment for left-sided infective endocarditis (aortic and mitral) is similar, and the recommendations are based on the pathogen, its susceptibility, timeline (acute vs. subacute), and whether it is native or prosthetic valve infective endocarditis. Generally speaking, for subacute native valve infective endocarditis, _S. viridans_ and _enterococci_ need to be covered, and the usual treatment involves IV penicillin (2.4 g, every 4 hours) for up to 4 weeks with gentamicin (1 mg/kg, every 12 hours) for 2 weeks (for suspected aminoglycoside-susceptible enterococci). Adjunctive therapy with aminoglycosides for native valve infective endocarditis is not recommended because of the risk of renal toxicity and because it doesn’t decrease mortality. Likewise, rifampin is not recommended because of the risk of hepatotoxicity. However, if