the culprit is aminoglycoside-susceptible enterococci, then gentamicin can be added to the regimen.[9] Additionally, for prosthetic valve infective endocarditis, the combination therapy of vancomycin and aminoglycoside or rifampin is acceptable. For acute native valve, infective endocarditis treatment _S. aureus_ needs to be covered. The treatment includes nafcillin for methicillin-susceptible _S. aureus_ (MSSA) or cefazolin if patients are allergic to nafcillin. For methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ (MRSA), vancomycin is the recommended antibiotic. The alternative is daptomycin, which requires closer monitoring for dosing. _Candida_ and _Aspergillus_ may respond to medical therapy 5-fluorouracil and amphotericin B respectively, however, these patients frequently require surgical therapy. Among patients with mechanical valve endocarditis who have experienced a central nervous system embolic event, it is reasonable to discontinue for 2 weeks all forms of anticoagulation.[8] If medical therapy fails, surgical intervention is often necessary. Class I indications for surgery in patients with infective endocarditis include valvular dysfunction with symptoms of congestive heart failure, left-sided infective endocarditis caused by _Staphylococcus aureus_ , fungal, or other highly resistant microorganisms, infective endocarditis with conduction defects or heart block, annular or aortic abscess, persistent infection 5 to 7 days after initiation of antibiotic therapy [10]. For native valve endocarditis, eradication of the infected valvular tissue with subsequent valve repair or replacement is the primary therapy. Indications for Surgery - CHF that is refractory to treatment - Fungal endocarditis - Recurrent septic emboli despite antibiotic treatment - Persistent sepsis despite antibiotic treatment - Rupture sinus of Valsalva aneurysm - Conduction defect due to a septal abscess There are several options for treating aortic valve endocarditis depending on the surgeon's experience and preferences. In the past, cryopreserved homografts were often utilized and had good outcomes. But these homografts have fallen out of favor because of recalcification and the need for another surgery. In addition, the implantation of a homograft does require skill. Today, aortic valve endocarditis is managed with the use of biological stentless valves. These valves have a long shelf life and are available in many sizes. However, they still require some technical skills to get the best outcomes. For native valve endocarditis limited to the leaflets/cusps, repair should be performed whenever feasible (Class I) [10]. For prosthetic valve endocarditis that spares the aortic root and annulus after radical resection, implantation of a new prosthetic valve (tissue or mechanical) is reasonable (Class IIa).[10]However, if the annulus is destroyed or if the infection has