starting therapy, as total body potassium is usually depleted. Hypomagnesemia and hypophosphatemia can be seen in starvation due to decreased total intake and increased losses. Mild hyponatremia may also be seen but is generally less severe than the “pseudo-hyponatremia” seen in profound hyperglycemic states. ## Treatment / Management Initial management should be directed toward fluid resuscitation, as patients usually present as profoundly dehydrated. Begin with the administration of isotonic saline or lactated Ringer solution. The American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends 1 to 1.5 L/hr isotonic fluids during the first 1 to 2 hours. Continuous insulin infusion should follow fluid replacement, contingent on serum potassium levels greater than 3.3 mEq/L, starting at a rate of 0.05 to 0.1 U/kg/hr. In contrast to DKA management, since serum glucose in EDKA is less than 250 mg/dL, dextrose 5% should initially be added to the fluids to avoid hypoglycemia and hasten clearance of ketosis.[34] Consider increasing the amount of dextrose to 10% if ketoacidosis persists on D5%.[27][35][27] Potassium should also be carefully monitored as total body potassium levels are likely to be depleted, and IV supplementation of potassium and other electrolytes may be needed. Blood glucose levels should be checked hourly, and electrolytes should be checked every 4 hours at a minimum, as is the standard for treating DKA. Patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors should have these medications discontinued as soon as the diagnosis is recognized and held until recovery from the acute illness.[10] Sodium bicarbonate infusions are not indicated and even use in severe acidemia of pH less than 6.9 is controversial. Patients generally require ICU admission for close hemodynamic and laboratory monitoring and frequent titration of insulin infusion.[2][36][37] Treatment with IV fluid resuscitation should continue until the anion gap closes and acidosis has resolved. ## Differential Diagnosis In patients presenting with anion gap metabolic acidosis, clinicians must consider a variety of possibilities early on. Infections, including pneumonia, genitourinary infection, and bacteremia, must be ruled out early in the diagnostic algorithm. In patients presenting with abdominal pain, consider intraabdominal infection and pancreatitis. Consider toxic alcohol (methanol, ethylene glycol) or paraldehyde ingestion, salicylate overdose, lactic acidosis, starvation ketosis, and pregnancy in the appropriate clinical setting. Patients may have also recently administered insulin, contributing to the euglycemic presentation. The presentation is very similar to alcoholic ketoacidosis, except EDKA patients have diabetes, and alcoholic ketoacidosis patients present after an alcohol binge more commonly have hypoglycemia and can