lethargy, loss of appetite, fatigue, or abdominal pain. Patients may not have polydipsia or polyuria since serum glucose is normal. The onset can be more insidious compared to hyperglycemic DKA due to the mechanism of subacute starvation required to induce ketosis and dehydration. There may or may not be an inciting infection or stressors, such as pregnancy, surgery, pancreatitis, alcohol use, or fasting.[30] Patients may present with deep, rapid breathing, known as Kussmaul respiration, which represents respiratory compensation for severe metabolic acidosis. They may have a fruity odor to their breath due to the loss of acetone. Tachycardia, hypotension, altered mentation, increased skin turgor, and delayed capillary refill are all signs of total body fluid loss. In severe cases, severe dehydration and metabolic derangement can lead to hypovolemic shock, lethargy, respiratory failure, coma, and death. ## Evaluation An ill-feeling patient with diabetes with symptoms such as malaise, dyspnea, nausea, or vomiting should undergo screening with serum pH and blood or urine ketone testing.[3][31][32][33] The initial laboratory evaluation of EDKA includes basic electrolytes, glucose, calcium, magnesium, creatinine, BUN, serum and urine ketones, beta-hydroxybutyric acid, arterial or venous blood gas analysis, lactic acid, chest radiograph, and electrocardiogram. Urine screening for ketones with nitroprusside reagent does not measure beta-hydroxybutyrate but detects acetone and acetoacetate. Serum levels of beta-hydroxybutyrate are typically greater than 3 mmol/L in EDKA (normal values less than 0.5 mmol/L). Consider CBC with differential white blood cell count and blood cultures if an infection is on the differential. Serum osmolality, to assess for an osmolar gap and toxic alcohols, should be sent to rule out toxic alcohol ingestion when suspected in any patient with severe, unexplained anion gap metabolic acidosis. Close attention should be paid to the anion gap to help narrow direct diagnosis, workup, and management. As described previously, the patient has normoglycemia (capillary blood glucose less than 250 mg/dL) in the presence of metabolic acidosis (pH less than 7.3) and a total decreased serum bicarbonate (less than 18 mEq/L). Serum and urine ketones must be elevated to make the diagnosis of EDKA. Lactic acid may be elevated but should not account entirely for the elevation in the anion gap. Leukocytosis may be present in the case of a concurrent infection; however, it is nonspecific and could also be due to hemoconcentration or stress, among other causes. Potassium levels vary, but great attention should be paid to the level before