of generalized tonic-clonic movements, often involving facial and respiratory muscles, lasting less than 15 minutes with a short period of postictal drowsiness. Conversely, complex febrile seizures are characterized by focal seizures, usually limited to one side of the body, lasting 15 minutes or more, that can recur within 24 hours. Complex febrile seizures are frequently followed by postictal weakness or paralysis on one side of the body (ie, Todd paralysis). Other associated symptoms for both febrile seizure types include loss of consciousness, foaming at the mouth, shortness of breath, and cyanosis. Additionally, clinicians should inquire about possible central nervous system (CNS) infection and underlying structural abnormalities to determine whether an event of concern constitutes a febrile seizure or a more severe illness presenting with a seizure.[5][4] **Clinical Examination** Following seizure activity, patients must undergo a general physical and a neurologic exam to ensure that the patient has had a neurologic return to their baseline state. However, differential diagnoses should be considered if a patient continues to have acute neurologic impairment or symptoms (eg, headaches, cognitive dysfunction, or weakness) on an exam. During the physical exam, serial vital signs should be obtained, and findings that may suggest the underlying etiology of the fever should be noted (eg, erythematous bulging eardrums, a red pharynx, enlarged and inflamed tonsils, nuchal rigidity, bulging or tense fontanels, and Brudzinski sign). Clinicians should also perform a complete neurological examination, including a fundus examination, to assess increased intracranial pressure. Dermatologic signs that may indicate an underlying etiology should also be evaluated, such as the unilateral port-wine stain associated with Sturge–Weber syndrome, hypopigmented macules indicative of tuberous sclerosis, or café au lait spots and Lisch nodules suggestive of neurofibromatosis.[5][4] ## Evaluation Patients who have a presentation and clinical features consistent with simple febrile seizures do not need further diagnostic studies due to the benign nature of this type of febrile seizure. However, if a patient's history is consistent with a complex febrile seizure, a thorough evaluation is recommended, which usually involves ruling out any structural or infectious causes and obtaining an electroencephalogram (EEG). Laboratory studies (eg, complete blood count, complete metabolic profile, and urinalysis) should also be performed if a patient has signs of dehydration, poor fluid intake, vomiting, or diarrhea.[4] Some cases of complex febrile seizures may require hospital admission for observation and further studies.[3][18] A lumbar puncture is not necessary for a patient with simple febrile