Asian countries, however, influenza A has been frequently associated with febrile seizures. Other commonly associated viral infections include human _herpesvirus 7 (_ HHV-7), human coronavirus HKU1, adenovirus, RSV, cytomegalovirus, shigella, and herpes simplex virus (HSV). Vaccines have also been shown to temporarily increase the risk of febrile seizures a few days postinoculation. These include the DTaP-IPV-Hib, MMRV, conjugated pneumococcal vaccine, and some formulations of inactivated influenza vaccines. The risk, although low, is also slightly higher in those getting more than one vaccination at a time. One study found the maximum estimated absolute excess risk due to concomitant administration of IIV3, PCV, and DTaP-containing vaccines was 30 febrile seizures per 100,000 persons vaccinated compared with administration on separate days.[15] ## Epidemiology Febrile seizures are the most common type of seizure in children between the ages of 6 months to 5 years. Febrile seizures are the most common type of seizures in childhood, with a slight male predominance of 1.6:1. Febrile seizures have an incidence of 2% to 5% of US and European children, which peaks between 12 to 18 months of age. A seasonal and diurnal association has also been observed in Japan, Finland, and the US, with more episodes occurring in the afternoon and winter months.[16] Some children have a single febrile seizure event, while 30% of children have multiple seizures during early childhood. ## Pathophysiology The exact pathophysiology of febrile seizures is not understood fully, but there is a recognized complex genetic predisposition, immaturity and vulnerability of the central nervous system, and various environmental factors. As a result of these various risk factors, the immature brain, with fever-enhanced neuronal excitation, is more susceptible to seizures and is one explanation as to why they occur more commonly in those younger than 3.[17] ## History and Physical **Clinical History** A comprehensive medical history and detailed description of the seizure event are essential for the evaluation of a possible febrile seizure. Because febrile seizures most commonly occur in children, a parent or caregiver is critical to help provide the patient's history, including vaccination history, immunization status, family history of seizure activity, any recent illness, development, exposure to toxins, and personal medical history. Historical information regarding the interval between fever onset and seizure activity, seizure appearance, length, and postictal symptoms should also be obtained, as this can help differentiate simple febrile seizures from complex types.[5][4] Simple febrile seizures usually have a single episode