amount of CSF removed. Prior confirmation of privileges and authorization with the referring provider for the admission requirement in the hospital or emergency settings to treat any potential complications. The procedure requires a high-quality fluoroscopic imaging facility. It should consist of a tilt table with a suitable support device and a capacity of 30 degrees of angulation in the downward head direction if a myelogram is also part of the procedure. It is crucial to ensure if the patient can fit on the fluoroscopy table before scheduling. If the patient's weight exceeds the capacity of the table, the table may not tilt or move, leading to the failure of the hydraulics mechanism. It is vital to ascertain the availability of necessary materials and personnel to treat adverse reactions and complications. A brain MRI or CT head imaging within the last 30 days usually excludes a mass, mass effect, or hydrocephalus. If prior imaging is not available, obtain a brain MRI or head CT. LP can potentially cause cerebral herniation by lowering the intracranial pressure. A physician or physician assistant should perform a physical examination. Any prior imaging of the lumbar spine, such as CT, MRI, or radiographs, is also essential to review. Assessment from the previous spine imaging helps decide the optimum puncture level of the procedure. Recent surgical scar or nearby infection precludes LP at that site. Prior spine imaging avoids spinal stenosis levels, which can cause more pain. Prior lumbar spine imaging helps estimate the skin to thecal sac distance, though generally decreases cranially. If lumbar processes are not palpable, then the regular 3.5-inch needle may not be sufficient. To estimate the appropriate needle length approximately predicts the skin-canal disease (inches) = 0.077 x BMI + 0.88.[10] It is often helpful if another person can gently compress the soft tissues on the back to reduce the skin-thecal sac distance. ## Technique or Treatment Adequate positioning of the patient is essential to make the patient comfortable and for the interventionist to perform the procedure safely. Many patients referred for the FGLP are generally hospitalized and have several comorbidities, and it is difficult for them to maintain still for a longer duration. In addition, many of them can have difficulty breathing or arm pain in certain positions. **Prone Approach:** The patient should lie prone on the fluoroscopy table. Pillows straighten the lumbar lordosis when placed below the stomach. It also