available, obtain MRI or head CT.[8] **Relative Contraindications** - Weight limit: Newer fluoroscopy tables have a weight limit of 400 pounds. Excess weight can potentially damage the fluoroscopy table hydraulic mechanism. - Infection: A superficial infection of the lumbar region's skin is a relative contraindication because of the risk of meningitis.[9] - Unstable and uncooperative patient: Appropriate sedation may help patients not move during the procedure. However, sedation can reduce the ability of the patient to respond if there is an injury to the nerve or spinal cord. - Pregnancy is also a relative contraindication, given the risk of radiation to the developing embryo. ## Equipment In addition to the fluoroscopy instrument, preferably with a biplane camera or a C-arm, a standardized LP kit is required. It contains a 22 or 25 gauge spinal needle, 10 ml of Lidocaine 1%, gauze pieces, paper drapes, skin disinfectant material, and a short 25 gauge needle for the lidocaine subcutaneous administration. The regular spinal (Quincke) needle is a traumatic needle with a cutting bevel. The Sprotte or Whitacre needles are non-traumatic needles. The choice of the needle depends on the physician's preference and training. Both types of needles have pros and cons. Although the non-traumatic needles have fewer chances of post lumbar puncture headache, they are difficult to maneuver and assess the depth. Therefore, the 22 or 25 gauge size needles are commonly used. Typically a 3.5 inches needle is sufficient, but a long needle with a length of 5.5 inches should be available if required. ## Personnel A physician, physician assistant, fluoroscopy technician, and nurse are usually involved. The nurse can monitor blood pressure, respiration, secure an IV line, and, if required, administer sedation and other medications. ## Preparation Consent: LP requires written and informed consent. Health care proxy can provide consent if the patient is not able to give the consent. In emergency settings, the referring physician deems it a medical necessity and includes it in the charts. Pre-procedure patient assessment: The physician should make a checklist containing indications, contraindications, and patient's medical and mental status, appropriate written and informed consent by the patient or health care proxy. The checklist should also include the patient's weight, positioning, prior attempts, pregnancy, allergies, medications, hardware in the lumbar spine or previous surgery, infection in the back. It is vital to ensure the need for sedation, availability of a fluoroscopy table and procedure room,