cardiac failure can be associated with thiamine deficiency, which is a rare condition found primarily among patients who are elderly, homeless, or have alcohol abuse disorder. Thiamine deficiency causes decreased ATP production with an accumulation of adenosine, which causes systemic vasodilation. This leads to lowered systemic vascular resistance and increased cardiac output. This evolves to weakened myocardium and decreased EF. Diuretic use can also cause urinary thiamine loss, further compounding the situation.[20][21] Other common causes of high-output cardiac failure are obesity, liver disease, and arteriovenous shunts. The causative physiologic changes are decreased afterload (ie, systemic vascular resistance) and increased metabolism. These can often present with preserved EF, pulmonary congestion, increased filling pressures, and elevated natriuretic peptides.[22][23] ## Epidemiology The global magnitude of the disease cannot be accurately assessed given the significant differences in geographical distribution, assessment methods, lack of imaging modalities, and nonadherence to the uniform staging and diagnosis of the disease. Approximately 1.2 million hospitalizations were due to CHF in 2017, with an increase in the percentage of patients with HFpEF compared to HFrEF.[1] By some reports, the incidence rate has plateaued; however, the prevalence increases as more patients receive therapy. Moreover, treatment has not translated to improved quality of life or a decrease in the number of hospitalizations for patients with CHF. According to the Global Health Data Exchange registry, the current worldwide prevalence of CHF is 64.34 million cases. This translates to 9.91 million years lost due to disability and 346.17 billion United States dollars in healthcare expenditure.[24] Age is a major determinant of HF. Regardless of the cause or the definition used to classify patients with HF, the prevalence of HF increases steeply with age. The Framingham Heart Study showed CHF prevalence to be 8 per 1000 males aged 50 to 59 years, with an increase to 66 per 1000 males aged 80 to 89.[25] The incidence of HF in men doubles with each 10-year age increase after the age of 65, whereas in women, for the same age cohort, the incidence triples. Men have higher rates of heart disease and CHF than women worldwide.[26][3] The global registry also notes a predilection for a race with a 25% higher prevalence of HF in Black patients than in White patients. HF is still the primary cause of hospitalization in the elderly population and accounts for 8.5% of cardiovascular-related deaths in the United States.[26] International statistics regarding the