epidemiology of HF are similar. The incidence increases dramatically with age, metabolic risk factors, and a sedentary lifestyle. Ischemic cardiomyopathy and hypertension are significant causes of HF in developing countries.[27] A notable difference based on a review of small cohort studies from these nations is a higher prevalence of isolated right HF. The theoretical cause of this is thought to be due to the higher prevalence of tuberculous, pericardial, and lung diseases; however, robust data to verify these claims are lacking. ## Pathophysiology HF is a progressive disease. Any acute insult to cardiac structure or acute alteration secondary to genetic mutation, cardiac tissue infiltration, ischemia, valvular heart disease, myocarditis, or acute myocardial injury may initiate the compensatory mechanism, which, once exhausted, results in maladaptation. In the initial stages of CHF, several compensatory mechanisms attempt to maintain cardiac output and meet the systemic demands. The chronic activation of the sympathetic nervous system results in reduced beta-receptor responsiveness and adrenaline stores. This results in changes in myocyte regeneration, myocardial hypertrophy, and myocardial hypercontractility.[28] The increased sympathetic drive also results in the activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) system, systemic vasoconstriction, and sodium retention.[28][29] In addition, the RAAS system releases angiotensin II, which has been shown to increase myocardial cellular hypertrophy and interstitial fibrosis, contributing to myocardial remodeling.[2] A decrease in cardiac output stimulates the neuroendocrine system by releasing epinephrine, norepinephrine, endothelin-1 (ET-1), and vasopressin. These mediators cause vasoconstriction, leading to increased afterload. Cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) increases, which causes an increase in cytosolic calcium in the myocytes. This increases myocardial contractility and further prevents myocardial relaxation. Increased afterload and myocardial contractility, combined with impaired myocardial relaxation, increase myocardial oxygen demand. This paradoxical need for increased cardiac output to meet myocardial demand eventually leads to myocardial cell death and apoptosis. As apoptosis continues, a decrease in cardiac output with increased demand leads to a perpetuating cycle of increased neurohumoral stimulation and maladaptive hemodynamic and myocardial responses.[29] The loss of myocytes decreases EF (cardiac contractility), which leads to incomplete LV emptying. Increased LV volume and pressure cause pulmonary congestion.[30] Renal hypoperfusion causes the release of antidiuretic hormone, further potentiating sodium and water retention. Increased central venous and intraabdominal pressure causes reduced renal blood flow, further decreasing GFR.[31] Decompensated CHF is characterized by peripheral vasoconstriction and increased preload delivery to the overburdened heart. The natriuretic peptides BNP and ANP are secreted but are ineffective in