cachexia - Cardiorenal disease - Liver dysfunction - Functional valvular insufficiencies (eg, functional MR or TR) - Mural thrombi and risk of thromboembolism (brain, kidney, lung, major limb vessels) - Recurrent hospitalizations and nosocomial infection - Mortality ## Consultations The consultation type depends on the disease stage and the intended management strategy. Commonly consulted specialists include: - Heart failure specialist - Interventional cardiologist (to address structural heart disease percutaneously) - Cardiac electrophysiologist (device therapy) - Cardiac surgeon (for CABG, VHD, or mechanical cardiac support) - Cardiac imaging specialist - Cardiac transplant specialist for stage D patients - Cardiac rehabilitation physiotherapist - Dietician - Palliative care (if aligned with the goal of care) ## Deterrence and Patient Education Risk factor reduction and aggressive management of comorbid conditions are crucial to reducing morbidity and mortality associated with HF. In addition to compliance with medications, patients need guidance on self-monitoring of symptoms of HF and avoiding the triggers of HF. These strategies can help prevent the development of HF in patients at high risk for the disease and slow the progression in those who are already diagnosed with it. Patient education is necessary to facilitate self-care and compliance. Close supervision, including surveillance by the patient and family, home-based visits, telephone support, and remote monitoring, is recommended. Socioeconomic support is pivotal in the appropriate management of the disease.[1] Patients require close clinical follow-up to assess volume status, effects of drug therapy, and escalation of care as indicated. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes HF is a complex clinical syndrome with high morbidity and mortality, necessitating an interprofessional approach to optimize patient-centered care and outcomes. Physicians, including clinical cardiologists, interventionalists, electrophysiologists, HF specialists, and cardiac imaging specialists, collaborate to diagnose, manage, and treat HF using evidence-based medical and procedural interventions. Advanced practitioners, such as HF nurse practitioners, play a crucial role in ongoing patient assessment, medication titration, and patient education to improve adherence to guideline-directed therapy. Specialty-trained HF nurses are vital in educating patients on lifestyle modifications, symptom recognition, and weight management to prevent exacerbations and reduce hospital admissions. Physical therapists help improve functional capacity and promote safe activity levels, while HF-trained social workers and case managers assess patients in community settings or through home visits to facilitate adherence to care plans and address social determinants of health that may impact disease management. Effective interprofessional communication and care coordination are essential to enhancing patient safety, team