thiazide diuretics; there is no scientific evidence to support one loop diuretic over another in acutely decompensated patients with HFpEF. The Diuretic Optimization Strategies Evaluation (DOSE) trial revealed no clinically significant differences in symptomatic improvement between bolus or continuous intravenous loop diuretics.[90] Some patients may require a combination of diuretic classes, such as thiazide, thiazide-like, or acetazolamide. Adding metolazone increases the risk of hypokalemia, hyponatremia, worsening renal function, and mortality compared to loop diuretics alone.[91] Contrarily, the Acetazolamide in Decompensated Heart Failure with Volume OveRload (ADVOR) trial demonstrated that adding acetazolamide to loop diuretics increases the incidence of successful decongestion in patients with acute heart failure within three days compared to placebo.[92] Following the initial stabilization of hemodynamics and ventilation, assessing and managing ischemia, arrhythmia, and other precipitating factors and comorbidities is paramount. Urgent revascularization is preferred in the setting of acute coronary syndrome. Intravenous or topical nitroglycerin is preferred in patients with hypertensive urgency or emergency and pulmonary edema; nitroglycerin decreases preload in patients with pulmonary edema. Short-term renal replacement therapy or ultrafiltration should be considered in symptomatic hypervolemic patients with poor renal function and minimal urine output, irrespective of supportive therapy and stable hemodynamics. Patients with poor baseline renal function or end-stage renal disease are at a significantly increased risk for requiring renal replacement therapy. There is no substantial evidence supporting the early initiation of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, ARBs, ARNIs, MRAs, SGLT2i therapy, or beta blockers to prevent major adverse cardiac events in unstable patients with acutely decompensated HFpEF. Thiazolidinediones and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors such as sitagliptin or saxagliptin are contraindicated in acutely decompensated HFpEF. ## Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis of exertional dyspnea with or without generalized fatigue is extensive and includes cardiac and noncardiac etiologies. Additionally, because the clinical syndrome of heart failure is the common endpoint for many disease processes, the overarching differential diagnosis for heart failure is similarly broad. However, in patients with exertional dyspnea and an underlying risk factor for HFpEF or comorbidity strongly associated with the development of HFpEF, the following diagnoses should be considered:[7][16] - Coronary artery disease - Hypertension - Valvular disease, particularly left-sided valvular disease - Infiltrative cardiac diseases such as amyloidosis, hemochromatosis, and sarcoidosis - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - Constrictive pericarditis. ## Prognosis Patients with HFpEF have increased rates of morbidity and mortality compared with patients without heart failure. However, recent studies suggest that morbidity rates are