of both. The general appearance of patients with severe CHF or those with acutely decompensated HF includes anxiety, diaphoresis, tachycardia, and tachypnea. Patients with chronic decompensated HF can appear cachexic. On chest examination, the classical finding of pulmonary rales translates to heart failure of moderate-to-severe intensity. Wheezing may be present in acute decompensated heart failure. As the severity of pulmonary congestion increases, frothy and blood-tinged sputum may be seen. Notably, the absence of rales does not exclude pulmonary congestion. Jugular venous distention is another classical finding that must be assessed in all patients with HF. In patients with elevated left-sided filling pressures, hepatojugular reflux (sustained increase in JVP of >4 cm after applying pressure over the liver with the patient lying at a 45° angle) is often seen. Patients with stage D HF may show signs of poor perfusion, including hypotension, reduced capillary refill, cold extremities, poor mentation, and reduced urine output. There may be pulsus alternans (an alternating weak and strong pulse), suggestive of severe ventricular dysfunction. The pulse can be irregular in the presence of atrial fibrillation or ectopic beats. Some degree of peripheral edema is present with most HF.[37] Weight gain is another method for assessing volume retention, and precise daily weights can be a useful monitoring tool. Precordial findings in patients with HF include an S3 gallop, or displaced apex beat (dilated heart). There may be murmurs of associated valvular lesions such as the pan-systolic murmur of mitral regurgitation or tricuspid regurgitation, systolic ejection murmur of aortic stenosis, or early diastolic murmur of aortic regurgitation. Patients with pulmonary hypertension may have palpable or loud P2 or parasternal heave. Patients with congenital heart disease may also have associated clubbing, cyanosis, and splitting of the second heart sound. An S3 gallop is the most significant and early finding associated with HF.[38] Patients with hypertensive heart disease may have an S4 or loud A2. Patients with HF with preserved EF may have an S4 gallop related to ventricular noncompliance. **Framingham Clinical Diagnostic Criteria for Heart Failure** The commonly used Framingham Diagnostic Criteria for Heart Failure require the presence of 2 major criteria or 1 major and 2 minor criteria to make the diagnosis. This clinical diagnostic tool is highly sensitive for the diagnosis of HF but has a relatively low specificity. The Framingham Diagnostic criteria are as follows:[37] The major criteria of HF include: - Acute pulmonary edema -