manifestations of hemorrhagic stroke.[5] Symptoms can lead to the extent and location of hemorrhage. - Headache is more common in a large hematoma. - Vomiting indicates raised intracranial pressure and is common with cerebellar hematoma. - Coma occurs in the involvement of the reticular activating system of the brainstem. - Seizure, aphasia, and hemianopia are seen in lobar hemorrhage. A prodrome consisting of numbness, tingling, and weakness may also occur in lobar bleed. - Contralateral sensorimotor deficits are the features in hemorrhage of the basal ganglia and thalamus. - Loss of all sensory modalities is the main feature of thalamic hemorrhage. - Extension of thalamic hematoma into the midbrain can cause vertical gaze palsy, ptosis, and unreactive pupil. - Cranial nerve dysfunction with contralateral weakness indicates brainstem hematoma.[5] - Usually, pontine hematoma produces coma and quadriparesis.[11] Cerebellar hemorrhage produces symptoms of raised ICP, such as lethargy, vomiting, and bradycardia. Progressive neurological deterioration indicates the enlargement of hematoma or an increase in edema. The clinical features of subarachnoid hemorrhage are severe headache described as a thunderclap, vomiting, syncope, photophobia, nuchal rigidity, seizures, and decreased level of consciousness.[8][9] Signs of meningismus such as the Kernig sign (pain on straightening the knee when the thigh is flexed to 90 degrees) and Brudzinski sign (involuntary hip flexion on flexing the neck of the patient) may be positive. ## Evaluation Computerized tomography (CT) is usually the initial investigation.[12] The hemorrhage increases in attenuation from 30-60 Hounsfield units (HU) in the hyperacute phase to 80 to 100 HU over hours.[13] The attenuation may be decreased in anemia and coagulopathy. Vasogenic edema around the hematoma may increase for up to 2 weeks. CT is considered the “gold standard” in detecting acute hemorrhage due to its sensitivity. However, gradient echo and T2\* susceptibility-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has the same sensitivity as CT to detect acute hemorrhage. These sequences are more sensitive than CT for identification of prior hemorrhage. In the subacute phase, the hematoma may be isodense to brain tissue, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) may be necessary. The volume of the hematoma can be measured by the formula AxBxC/2, where A and B are the largest diameter and the diameter perpendicular to that.[14] C is the vertical height of the hematoma. Intracerebral hemorrhage with a volume of more than 60 ml is associated with high mortality.[15] The other poor prognostic factors are hematoma expansion, intraventricular hemorrhage,