the injury, as well as proximity to a trauma center, and definitive hemorrhage control. The quantity, type of fluids to be used, and endpoints of resuscitation remain topics of much study and debate. For crystalloid resuscitation, normal saline and lactated ringers are the most commonly used fluids. Normal saline has the drawback of causing a non-anion gap hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis due to the high chloride content, while lactated ringers can cause a metabolic alkalosis as lactate metabolism regenerates into bicarbonate. Recent trends in damage control resuscitation focus on “hemostatic resuscitation,” which pushes for early use of blood products rather than an abundance of crystalloids in order to minimalize the metabolic derangement, resuscitation-induced coagulopathy, and the hemodilution that occurs with crystalloid resuscitation. The end goal of resuscitation and the ratios of blood products remain at the center of much study and debate. A recent study has shown no significant difference in mortality at 24 hours or 30 days between ratios of 1:1:1 and 1:1:2 of plasma to platelets to packed RBCs. However, patients who received the more balanced ratio of 1:1:1 were less likely to die due to exsanguination in 24 hours and were more likely to achieve hemostasis. Additionally, reduction in time to first plasma transfusion has shown a significant reduction in mortality in damage control resuscitation. In addition to blood products, products that prevent the breakdown of fibrin in clots, or antifibrinolytics, have been studied for their utility in the treatment of hemorrhagic shock in trauma patients. Several antifibrinolytics have been shown to be safe and effective in elective surgery. The CRASH-2 study was a randomized control trial of tranexamic acid versus placebo in trauma has been shown to decrease overall mortality when given in the first eight hours of injury. Follow-up analysis shows additional benefit to tranexamic acid when given in the first three hours after surgery. Damage control resuscitation is to occur in conjunction with prompt intervention to control the source of bleeding. Strategies may differ depending on proximity to definitive treatment. ## Differential Diagnosis While hemorrhage is the most common cause of shock in the trauma patient, other causes of shock are to remain on the differential. Obstructive shock can occur in the setting of tension pneumothorax and cardiac tamponade. These etiologies should be uncovered in the primary survey. In the setting of head or neck trauma, an inadequate sympathetic response, or neurogenic shock, is a