infra-tentorial location, and contrast extravasation on CT scan (spot sign).[5] The paramagnetic properties of deoxyhemoglobin allow early detection of hemorrhage in MRI.[16] Gradient echo (GRE) imaging is as good as CT in detecting acute bleed. MRI can distinguish between the hemorrhagic transformation of infarct and primary hemorrhage. MRI can detect underlying causes of secondary hemorrhages, such as vascular malformations, including cavernomas, tumors, and cerebral vein thrombosis. Extravasation of contrast in CT angiogram (CTA) indicates ongoing bleeding associated with fatality.[17] Multidetector CT angiography(MDCTA) helps rule out the causes of secondary hemorrhagic stroke such as arteriovenous malformation (AVM), ruptured aneurysm, dural venous sinus (or cerebral vein) thrombosis (DVST/CVT), vasculitis, and Moya-Moya disease.[18] (fig.4). Certain imaging characteristics help in the differentiation of the underlying disease.[19] - Multiple hemorrhages of different ages in parieto-occipital lobes are seen in cerebral amyloid antipathy. - Hemorrhage in an arterial territory indicates hemorrhagic infarction. - Multiple stages of bleed in the same hematoma with a fluid level are seen in anticoagulation-induced hemorrhages. - A combination of small ischemic and hemorrhagic lesions indicates vasculitis. - Hemorrhage in the presence of occlusion of arteries is the feature of Moyamoya disease. Four-vessel digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is necessary in the case of SAH. A repeat study is needed to confirm if the DSA is negative for an aneurysm. Repeat angiography is advisable at 1-week and 6-weeks intervals. Vascular abnormalities need to be suspected if the following findings are present on a plain CT scan: - Subarachnoid hemorrhage - Enlarged vessels or calcifications along the margins of the ICH - Hyperattenuation within a dural venous sinus - A cortical vein along the presumed venous drainage path - Unusual hematoma shape - Presence of edema out of proportion to the time of presumed ICH - An unusual hemorrhage location - Presence of other abnormal structures in the brain (like a mass)[20][21] An additional MRI scan will be beneficial in the following circumstances to identify a secondary cause for ICH: - Lobar hemorrhage location - Age \<55 years, and - No history of hypertension Magnetic resonance venography or CT venography is indicated based on the following conditions that suggest cerebral venous thrombosis: - Hemorrhage location - Relative edema volume - Abnormal signal in the cerebral sinuses Blood investigations such as bleeding time, clotting time, platelet count, peripheral smear, prothrombin time (PT), and activated partial thromboplastin time(aPTT) will detect any abnormality of bleeding or coagulation