to 4 consecutive hours after chest tube insertion - Great vessel or chest wall injury - Pericardial tamponade Thoracotomy allows for rapid assessment of intrathoracic injuries and hemostasis. Drainage of hemothorax in case of coagulopathy should be performed carefully with consideration of the underlying disease. Correction of coagulation function before surgical intervention should be performed if permitted by clinical patient status. Improper hemothorax evacuation may lead to complications like empyema and fibrothorax. Multiple studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of video-assisted thoracoscopy for management of retained hemothorax. It has had a positive impact on the length of stay in the hospital and survival of patients. VATS provides clear visualization of the pleural cavity, correct chest tube placement for accurate bleeding control, removal of the retained clot, evacuation and decortication of posttraumatic empyemas. Furthermore, it provides an evaluation of suspected diaphragmatic injuries, treatment of persistent air leaks, and evaluation of mediastinal injuries.[27] ## Differential Diagnosis Differential diagnosis of blunt chest trauma can be divided into three categories\[14\]: Visceral injuries - Ruptured diaphragm - Pulmonary contusion - Pneumothorax - Hemothorax - Tracheobronchial injuries - Esophageal injury - Pneumomediastinum Skeletal Injuries - Flail chest - Rib fracture - Sternoclavicular fractures or dislocations - Scapular fracture - Clavicular fracture or dislocation - Vertebral or spinal injury Cardiovascular injuries - Aortic rupture - Caval injury - Pericardial effusion/tamponade - Subclavian artery injury - Intercostal artery injury - Commotio cordis - Cardiac laceration ## Prognosis Morbidity and mortality of traumatic hemothorax correlate with the severity of the injury and those at risk of late complications, namely empyema and fibrothorax/trapped lung. Patients with retained hemothorax are at risk of developing empyema resulting in a prolonged ICU/hospital stay.[27] ## Complications Thoracic ultrasound complications - Minimal - Point tenderness at the site of probe placement Massive hemothorax may lead to - Hemodynamic instability - Shock - Hypoxia - Death Improper chest tube placement may lead to - Solid organ injury Inadequate placement of chest tube may lead to insufficient hemothorax drainage which promotes empyema formation. Studies show a 26.8% incidence of empyema in patients with post-traumatic retained hemothorax. Fibrothorax results from fibrin deposition within the pleural space. Improper hemothorax drainage causes an inflammatory coating within the pleural space which impedes proper lung expansion. This phenomenon is known as lung entrapment.[28] ## Deterrence and Patient Education Studies show that lack of restraints and driver impairment are major factors contributing to severe