bath - Foley catheter - Sheets/towels. Additional equipment that may be useful includes a spray bottle and a fan. ## Personnel A single provider can perform all of the cooling techniques described in this article. However, additional personnel will allow for faster cooling utilizing parallel interventions. ## Preparation In preparation, the patient should be exposed completely, and intravenous access established. When available, placing the patient on a cardiac monitor is recommended. Additionally, an intra-cavitary thermometer may be placed to monitor core body temperature closely. Commonly, esophageal, rectal, and bladder probes are used. ## Technique or Treatment Continuous application of cold water to the skin can be achieved by either sponging the patient or using a spray bottle. Placing a fan to blow directly on the patient while also spraying or sponging will increase the rate of evaporation and, thereby, will more rapidly decrease body temperature. Another option is to submerge a sheet in cold water, wring it out, and then wrap the patient in the damp sheet. This can be changed and re-submerged when it is no longer cool. The downside of these methods is that they require continuous reapplication of the water and ice to maintain efficacy (see **Graphic.** Cooling Techniques for Hyperthermia). Another option is to apply ice packs to the patient. The areas most effective in cooling core temperature are the groin, axillae, neck, and torso. Cold saline can be infused with care to monitor for resultant shivering. If the patient has a Foley catheter, it can also irrigate the bladder with cold saline. More frequent ice pack changes and reapplication of cold water will allow for more rapid cooling.[3][4] One of the most effective cooling methods is a water bath with water at 90 F (26.7 C). Colder temperatures may cause shivering. ## Complications Overall, cooling is a useful intervention that has few complications. The patient's vital signs must be monitored closely during the cooling process. As mentioned, patients should be monitored for shivering and hindering cooling efforts. Critically ill patients may further decompensate during cooling. Additionally, if a patient's body temperature drops below normal (36 C), they will be at risk for the sequelae of hypothermia, including arrhythmias and coagulopathy. An important organ to monitor during the cooling process is the skin. It is susceptible to damage from prolonged exposure to ice. Covering ice packs with a towel or sheet and regularly adjusting the application