on an exam. A chest x-ray may prove to be useful in patients with shortness of breath. A chest x-ray may also show widening of the mediastinum in the setting or aortic dissection, but this is a relatively insensitive marker, and CT angiography of the chest and abdomen should be obtained to rule out or confirm a dissection and to determine the extent of the intimal tear.[7] ## Treatment / Management While the specific target organ that is affected may dictate some specifics of treatment, rapid lowering of blood pressure is the mainstay of therapy for hypertensive emergencies. The goal would be to lower the mean arterial pressure by 20% to 25% within the first 1 to 2 hours. Several agents can be used, but the unifying characteristics are that they are rapidly acting and easily titratable. For this reason, oral medications, such as clonidine and nifedipine, play no role in the immediate management of a hypertensive emergency. Intravenous vasoactive drips such as labetalol, esmolol, nicardipine, and nitroglycerin are typically effective options.[5][8] The key feature about management is that if there is no evidence of organ damage, then the blood pressure reduction should be gradual over a few days. On the other hand, severe hypertension in pregnancy demands immediate treatment. Female patients who become pregnant should be prescribed nifedipine, methyldopa, or labetalol during pregnancy; these women should not be treated with ACE inhibitors or ARBs. During the acute event, IV hydralazine or oral nifedipine can be used to lower blood pressure. **Current Guidelines** 1. Patients with a hypertensive emergency need admission with continuous blood pressure monitoring. 1. Assess for target organ injury and start parenteral medications as needed 1. If the patient has an acute emergency like aortic dissection, lower the blood pressure to below 140 mmHg in the first hour 1. for adults with no organ damage, lower the blood pressure by 25% in the first hour and then to 160/100 over the next 2-6 hours, and then gradually to normal over 2 days. ## Differential Diagnosis - Acute kidney injury - Aortic coarctation - Aortic dissection - Chronic kidney disease - Eclampsia - Hypocalcemia - Hyperthyroidism - Pheochromocytoma - Renal artery stenosis - Subarachnoid hemorrhage ## Prognosis In the past, hypertensive emergencies were frequently associated with kidney impairment, myocardial infarction, stroke, or death. With more awareness and better control of blood pressure, mortality has decreased significantly in the