has been used as an adjunct to beta-blockers in the treatment of aortic dissection, but this has become an infrequent practice due to its association with rapid and profound hypotension, tachyphylaxis, as well as the potential for cyanide toxicity. Nicardipine with the addition of a beta-blocker would also be a reasonable choice. Preeclampsia is a particularly troubling and difficult to manage hypertensive emergency since there are two patients to consider. The first-line therapy is magnesium sulfate, administered as a 4 g to 6 g loading dose followed by 1 g to 2 g/hour infusion. Care must be taken to monitor for urine output, deep tendon reflexes, and respiratory status. If further antihypertensives are needed, beta-blockers can be used, but only to treat SBP higher than 160 mmHg. Hydralazine was once touted as the preferred agent in pregnant patients; however, its delayed onset of action, prolonged duration, and unpredictable hypotensive effects make it a less than ideal choice. Regardless of the agent, the patient is likely to need close monitoring in a critical care setting. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Hypertensive emergency is not an uncommon presentation to the ER. Despite awareness of its high morbidity and mortality, at least 50% of patients with hypertension do not remain compliant with their medications. The problem is exacerbated when the only access for these patients is the emergency room. There are countless guidelines by national agencies and organizations on blood pressure control, but many patients do not seem to appreciate the seriousness of hypertension. An interprofessional approach to the management of hypertension is recommended beginning with the primary caregiver. Patients need to be educated about the importance of antihypertensive medications by the pharmacist, discharge nurse, and primary care provider. The treatment of hypertension is best done as an outpatient; the few minutes spent with a cardiologist in a hospital very rarely makes any difference. The pharmacist, nurse, and the primary practitioner have a vital role to play in the education of patients with hypertension. The need to regularly measure the blood pressure and follow up with the healthcare provider cannot be overemphasized. Patients need to be told to change their lifestyle, eat healthy, exercise, discontinue smoking, and remain medication compliant. At every clinic visit, the blood pressure should be monitored. A social worker should be involved in the care to ensure that the patient's financial status is not limiting the ability to buy