of absolute alcohol is injected into the septal perforator via an OTW balloon. Left ventrical to the aorta and LVOT gradients are measured by pigtail and TTE, respectively. Another 1 to 2 cc alcohol infusion can be repeated if a \<50% reduction in gradients is noted. The OTW balloon should be inflated 10 minutes after the last alcohol infusion. Then, a coronary angiogram is performed to view LAD for any unintended consequences. ## Complications The complications associated with ASA are ventricular septal defect, injury to LAD from the backflow of alcohol, tachyarrhythmia, and complete heart block. Other anticipated complications related to left heart catheterization included vascular access site complications, coronary artery dissection, thromboembolism like stroke/acute limb ischemia, right ventricular perforation from pacemaker insertion, and contrast injuries to kidneys and pericardial tamponade. Also, sedation can lead to respiratory failure, memory loss, and aspiration pneumonia. ## Clinical Significance The successful septal reduction is defined as a >50% reduction in LVOT peak gradient. Continuous improvement in gradient is expected, along with cardiac remodeling over a few years. ASA avoids the anxiety related to the surgery and reduces the recovery time and residual discomfort associated with surgery. However, between 5 to 15% of patients may fail ASA therapy. Repeat ASA can be performed in patients with suitable anatomy and inadequate reduction of LVOT gradient. The meta-analysis by Agrawal et al showed ASA and surgical myomectomy had similar mortality rates and functional capacity post-intervention. However, an increased rate of conduction abnormalities and higher LVOT gradient requiring reintervention was noted in the ASA group.[8] There are currently no randomized controlled trials comparing ASA and surgical myomectomy. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes ASA performed by experienced interventional cardiologists in comprehensive HCM centers undoubtedly enhances procedural outcomes. Studies have shown the overall mortality from the procedures is \<1% and the survival rate is similar to surgical myomectomy.[7][9][10] Appropriate patient selection is the key to procedural success. Highly trained nursing staff aids in identifying potentially life-threatening complications, augmenting the need for immediate intervention. A skilled and experienced surgeon should also be on standby to handle any potential procedure-related complications. This requires collaborating with qualified staff support and a multidisciplinary team at every level to achieve great procedural success. A full discussion of the available treatment options should be held with symptomatic patients. The success rates, risks, and benefits should be explained in detail. Referral to centers with comprehensive HCM