mainly contributed by mitral valve pathology. 1. Other associated cardiac conditions like aortic stenosis, intrinsic mitral valve pathology, or anomalous papillary muscle require surgical repair.[2] ## Equipment If needed, ASA can be performed in a cardiac catheterization laboratory under moderate sedation or with anesthesia assistance. A coronary angiogram is required to assess any significant coronary artery diseases and locate the septal perforator in the region of interest. Usually, transthoracic or transesophageal, or intracardiac echo guidance is needed to localize the septal perforator by using ultrasound-enhancing contrast agent injection and monitoring LVOT gradients during the procedure. ASA with echo guidance has resulted in greater success, reduced procedure time, and lower complications like heart blocks and infarct size.[5] ## Personnel The procedures should be performed in a high-volume tertiary center by trained interventional cardiologists in a well-equipped catheterization laboratory with the support of experienced personnel. Also, cardiac surgeons should be on standby for any unexpected complications. Experienced operators have at least 20 ASA procedures or work in comprehensive HCM centers with a cumulative 50 ASA procedures.[6] ## Preparation Informed consent should be obtained. Major complications- vascular access, contrast injury, risk of myocardial infarction due to alcohol, complications from guide catheter, risk of conduction abnormalities including the risk of sedation, and possible deaths should be explained well in advance, including the need for repeat intervention in 7-20% of patient with residual obstruction.[7] ## Technique or Treatment A temporary transvenous pacemaker should be placed and kept for 2 or 3 days after the procedure. Dual arterial access should be obtained. A 6F or 7F left coronary guide catheter is used to engage the left main coronary artery, and another access is used to introduce a 5F or 6F pigtail catheter to the left ventricle for measurement of the ventricle, LVOT, and aortic gradients. A coronary wire is advanced to the first septal perforator via a guide catheter in the left main. Then, the wire balloon (OTW) is advanced over the wire and inflated at the proximal portion of the septal perforator to occlude the vessel completely. After that, the dye is injected into the septal branch to ensure no reflux into the left anterior descending artery (LAD) and no collaterals supplied by this septal branch. Echocardiographic contrast dye is injected into the septal branch to spot the area of interest by a transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE). After delineating the targeted myocardium, 1 to 2 cc