water loss is seen with central or nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (DI) and also in conditions with increased insensible loss. Central DI can occur due to inadequate production of ADH. Common causes of central DI are idiopathic, head trauma, cranial neoplasm, and pituitary infiltrative diseases, such as sarcoidosis and histiocytosis. Nephrogenic DI occurs due to tubular unresponsiveness to the action of ADH and can be inherited in an X-linked pattern or secondary to certain medications, including lithium, foscarnet, and demeclocycline. Rarely, hypernatremia with inadequate fluid intake can be seen in breastfed babies, child or elder abuse, and patients with an impaired thirst response. Excess sodium usually is iatrogenic and seen in the hospital setting but can be associated with improper formula mixing, excess sodium bicarbonate ingestion, salt tablet poisoning, hyperaldosteronism, and seawater drowning.[5][6][7][8] ## Epidemiology Hypernatremia is primarily seen in infants and the elderly population. Infants receiving inadequate water replacement in the setting of gastroenteritis or ineffective breastfeeding are common scenarios. Premature infants are at higher risk due to their relatively small mass to surface area and their dependency on the caretaker to administer fluids. Patients with neurologic impairment also are at risk due to impaired thirst mechanism and lack of water availability. Hypernatremia can occur in the hospital setting due to hypertonic fluid infusions, especially when combined with the patient's inability for adequate water intake.[9] ## Pathophysiology Sodium is important to maintain extracellular fluid (ECF) volume. Changes in the ECF volume provide feedback to maintain total sodium content by increasing or decreasing sodium excretion in the urine. Sodium excretion also involves regulatory mechanisms such as the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone systems. When serum sodium increases, the plasma osmolality increases, which triggers the thirst response and ADH secretion, leading to renal water conservation and concentrated urine.[10] ## History and Physical Most patients present with symptoms suggestive of fluid loss and clinical signs of dehydration. Symptoms and signs of hypernatremia are secondary to central nervous system dysfunction and are seen when serum sodium rises rapidly or is greater than 160 meq/L. Infants and Children present with irritability and agitation, which can progress to lethargy, somnolence, and coma. Other symptoms include increased thirst response in alert patients and high-pitched cries in infants. Patients with diabetes insipidus present with polyuria and polydipsia. The skin can feel doughy or velvety due to intracellular water loss. Orthostatic hypotension and tachycardia are usually present in hypovolemic hypernatremia. The patient may