and evaporation are the two cooling modes employed in treating heat-related illnesses. Studies have shown ice-water immersion to be the most rapidly effective. However, there are obvious barriers to performing this in an emergency department. Marathons and other athletic events with frequent heat-related illnesses sometimes have this capability. Evaporation (mist and fan) is the second most rapid way to cool a patient. Ice packs to the groin, axilla, neck, and areas near other great vessels are less effective. Cooled intravenous fluids have been studied, but there is no clear consensus on their benefit (preservation of neurologic function) versus potential harm (induced shivering), but they may be considered. This activity will discuss the procedure for evaporative cooling with other adjunct methods in the emergency department. Of note, commercially available products are designed for cooling; these range from invasive cooling catheters to non-invasive adhesive pads that circulate chilled water. These devices were designed for targeted hypothermia post-cardiac arrest. However, they can be used for heat-related illnesses when available. There is limited literature comparing these devices to the traditional methods. The priority in heat-related illness is early recognition and intervention. Military and sports literature has identified 40 C as the target, and the faster the target is achieved, the lower the patient mortality.[1] ## Indications Indications for cooling include any signs of heat-related illness in an elevated body temperature. Previously, heat-related illness has been defined as a core body temperature greater than 40 C. However, any elevation above normal body temperature in a symptomatic patient is an indication to consider cooling. The objective is to rapidly decrease the temperature below 40 C, with the final goal of reaching a normal range (36 C to 38 C). It is important to note if the patient's other vital signs, like hemodynamic instability, indicate severe heat stroke, in which case, rapid cooling is the most crucial intervention to stabilize the patient.[2] ## Contraindications The only absolute contraindication to cooling is a normal or low body temperature. Hyperthermia in a patient may be a sign of sepsis, toxic ingestion, withdrawal, or another etiology, in which case disease-specific treatment should not be overlooked. Care should be taken to prioritize usual resuscitation and emergent management of airway, breathing, and circulation. ## Equipment There are several cooling methods available in the emergency department with standard equipment, such as: - Cooling blanket - Cold saline - Ice packs - Cool water