In cases of sodium intoxication, the free water requirement may be too large and cause volume overload, requiring the use of loop diuretics and, at times, peritoneal dialysis to remove excess sodium. There are no published reports of seizures or cerebral edema complicating rapid correction of hypernatremia in adults. Older children and adults with central DI may need desmopressin, which is available in intranasal and oral forms. Water intoxication and hyponatremia are adverse effects seen with the use of desmopressin. ## Differential Diagnosis - Cirrhosis - Central diabetes insipidus - Diarrhea - Hypocalcemia - Hyponatremia - Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus - Thirst defect - Type 1 diabetes mellitus ## Complications The most serious complication of hypernatremia is subarachnoid or subdural hemorrhage due to the rupture of bridging veins and dural sinus thrombosis. It can lead to permanent brain damage or death. Rapid correction of chronic hypernatremia causes cerebral edema, seizure, and permanent brain damage.[16] ## Pearls and Other Issues - Hypernatremia occurs due to net water loss or excess sodium intake. - It is more common in infants or older populations with neurological or physical impairment. - It is crucial to identify acute versus chronic onset hypernatremia before correcting the free water deficit. - It is important to remember that hypernatremia should be corrected over 48 hours. Rapid correction can lead to cerebral edema and seizures. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Hypernatremia is best managed by an interprofessional team that includes an internist, endocrinologist, emergency department physician, nurse practitioner, and the primary care provider. The key is to identify the cause and correct the hypertonicity. The goal of therapy is to correct both the serum sodium and the intravascular volume. In patients with severe dehydration or shock, the initial step is fluid resuscitation with isotonic fluids before free water correction. Healthcare providers should be cognizant of the fact that rapid correction of hypernatremia can lead to cerebral edema because water moves from the serum into the brain cells. The goal is to decrease the serum sodium by not more than 10 to 12 meq/L in 24 hours. The acute phase of sodium correction requires monitoring of serum sodium levels every 2 to 4 hours. Frequent communication between the attending physician, the nursing staff, and the pharmacist is crucial to avoid the rapid correction of sodium levels. Rapid correction of sodium levels can lead to a seizure, cerebral edema, or permanent neurological