past 3 decades. However, after the acute treatment righter control of blood pressure is vital if one wants to lower morbidity and mortality.[9] Unfortunately, the overall long-term prognosis of patients with hypertensive emergencies is guarded. A significant number of these patients may develop adverse cardiac events or a stroke within 12 months. ## Complications Failure to make a diagnosis or treatment of a hypertensive emergency can lead to the following: - Renal failure - Vision loss - MI - Stroke ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care Until the blood pressure is controlled bed rest is recommended. A low sodium diet and weight loss are recommended. ## Deterrence and Patient Education The best way to prevent a hypertensive emergency is to remain compliant with antihypertensive medications. While routine hypertension can be managed by the primary health care provider, consultation from a cardiologist is recommended when the patient is on more than 3 antihypertensives and the blood pressure still remains elevated. ## Pearls and Other Issues Markedly elevated blood pressure is common with acute ischemic stroke and requires a specialized approach. Per AHA/ASA guidelines, patients eligible for thrombolysis should have blood pressure lowered to SBP lower than 185 mmHg and DBP lower than 110 mmHg and maintained at SBP lower than 180 mmHg and DBP lower than 105 mmHg for the first 24 hours. For those not receiving thrombolytics, only levels of SBP higher than 220 mmHg or DBP higher than 120 mmHg should be lowered as hypertension in acute stroke is usually transient and may be protective. A reasonable goal is about a 15% decrease in mean arterial pressure. In an acute hemorrhagic stroke, reduction of SBP to lower than 140 mmHg may improve functional outcomes. This requires an aggressive approach with rapidly titrated intravenous antihypertensives, and extreme vigilance is necessary to prevent hypotension, which causes decreased cerebral perfusion pressure and adds to the ischemic insult. Easily titratable medications with rapid onset and short duration of action, such as nicardipine, are recommended. Aortic dissection also deviates in the degree of blood pressure lowering that is recommended. Traditional teaching is to lower the blood pressure to as low as organs will allow, with close monitoring of the patient’s mental status as a guide. Intravenous beta-blockers, most commonly esmolol, are first-line treatments due to their ability to lower blood pressure while avoiding reflex tachycardia and increased shear stress to the aortic wall. Classically, nitroprusside