North America, the ready availability of antihypertensive medications has lowered hypertensive emergencies and improved survival. Nonetheless, untreated hypertensive emergency can also be fatal. ## Pathophysiology The pathophysiology resulting in end-organ dysfunction in hypertensive emergencies is not fully understood. However, the mechanical stress on vascular walls likely leads to endothelial damage and a pro-inflammatory response. This results in increased vascular permeability, platelet, and coagulation cascade activation, and fibrin clot deposition leads to hypoperfusion at the level of the target organ tissue. ## Histopathology Fibrinoid necrosis may be seen in the kidney arterioles, which is a classic feature of malignant hypertension. The majority of patients with this feature are dead within 24 months if the hypertension is left untreated. ## History and Physical In patients who present with markedly elevated blood pressure, a careful history and exam are necessary to determine which of these patients is having a true hypertensive emergency. Symptoms such as a headache, dizziness, altered mental status, shortness of breath, chest pain, decreased urine output, vomiting, or changes in vision warrant further evaluation. The source of the abrupt onset of hypertension should also be investigated to direct treatment. The expected exam findings vary depending on the specific target organ most affected. With cardiac dysfunction, rales may be heard on lung auscultation, jugular venous distention or peripheral edema may be noted, and extra heart sounds may be apparent. In the event of a very rapid onset of hypertension, often seen with sympathomimetic abuse, marked dyspnea in the absence of peripheral edema due to flash pulmonary edema may be encountered. Neurologic dysfunction may result in altered mental status, blurry vision, ataxia or other cerebellar dysfunction, aphasia, or unilateral numbness or weakness. A careful neurologic exam that includes a cranial nerve exam, strength, and sensation testing, as well as cerebellar tests and gait testing should be done. The eye exam may reveal papilledema as well as exudates and flame-shaped hemorrhages. Acute renal failure may also result in signs of pulmonary edema or peripheral edema. ## Evaluation The evaluation for hypertensive emergencies also depends on the symptoms and signs present. Once it is determined that a true hypertensive emergency is present or likely, labs such as metabolic panels, urinalysis, B-natriuretic peptide, and cardiac enzymes may be useful. An ECG is recommended in any patient suspected of having cardiac ischemia. Head computed tomography (CT) is recommended in patients with acute neurologic complaints or signs