do not require hospital admission. The duration of the emergency room stay after treatment with either oral or IV hypertonic saline solution has been reported between 50 and 79 minutes.[5] Severe EAH requires ward or ICU admission depending upon institutional criteria. Patients who develop exercise-associated hyponatremia encephalopathy risk significant morbidity and mortality secondary to cerebral damage from cerebral edema; the exact mortality rate is unknown.[4][7] It is unknown whether patients with prior EAH injury are at higher risk for repeat development in the future. ## Complications The major complications of EAH and its treatment include exercise-associated hyponatremic encephalopathy (EAHE), noncardiogenic pulmonary edema, central pontine myelinolysis, and improper treatment resulting from an alternate diagnosis. If left untreated, mild EAH can progress to severe EAH with profoundly altered mental status, seizure, and coma—an end-stage finding due to cerebral edema termed EAHE. EAHE is often fatal, though the exact mortality rate is not defined.[3][7] The treatment for EAHE is a prompt correction of serum sodium with hypertonic saline and supportive care for its sequelae (respiratory support, seizure management). Noncardiogenic pulmonary edema may also develop secondary to osmotic dysregulation in EAH, leading to respiratory distress and the need for respiratory support. Rapid correction of hyponatremia may result in central pontine demyelination, a catastrophic and permanent demyelinating event that presents with neurologic deficits despite correction of the serum sodium. If EAH is diagnosed mistakenly in the presence of true dehydration or heat stroke, treatment with hypertonic fluids, fluid restriction, and lack of cooling may cause further harm to the patient.[3] ## Consultations Emergency medical providers and athletic event staff should consult a tertiary care center for recommendations on appropriate care and ultimate transfer of patients with suspected or confirmed EAH. Acute care providers in the hospital setting should consider a consultation with a critical care specialist in the event of significant hyponatremia below the institutional cutoff for care on a regular medical ward or for the development of EAHE noncardiogenic pulmonary edema or central pontine demyelination. ## Deterrence and Patient Education EAH can be prevented by avoiding overhydration, ensuring adequate oral sodium intake, and educating athletes, event staff, and healthcare providers on the prevention strategies and presenting symptoms. EAH occurs when hypotonic fluid intake exceeds total body fluid losses. Therefore the safest strategy for fluid repletion is a thirst-driven replacement to avoid overhydration. Estimates of individual athlete replacement needs by monitoring weight changes during training