occur due to peripheral vasoconstriction, leading to increased diuresis and subsequent volume depletion. Patients with moderate hypothermia have a core body temperature of 28 to 32 °C (82-90 °F). Cognitive decline and lethargy are common. CNS depression may lead to hyporeflexia, with the pupils being less responsive and dilated. Hypotension, bradycardia, and bradypnea may ensue. Shivering typically ceases when the core temperature reaches 30 to 32 °C, at which point, paradoxical undressing may be observed. Susceptibility to dysrhythmias increases, with atrial fibrillation being the most common. Individuals with severe hypothermia have a core body temperature of less than 28 °C (82 °F). Cerebral blood flow continues to decline until patients become unresponsive. Blood pressure, heart rate, and cardiac output also continue to decrease. Atrial and junctional dysrhythmias may be present. Pulmonary congestion, oliguria, and areflexia may occur. The condition may result in cardiorespiratory failure.[13] All patients with suspected hypothermia should have a complete history and physical examination to exclude local cold-induced injuries. A history of trauma or an underlying condition must be ruled out. Vital signs and symptoms inconsistent with the degree of hypothermia may be clues to an alternate diagnosis, such as hypothyroidism, adrenal insufficiency, sepsis, hypoglycemia, carbon monoxide poisoning, alcohol abuse, malnutrition, and unintentional or intentional overdose. Hypothermia may arise from overdosing on some medications, such as beta-blockers, clonidine, neuroleptics, meperidine, and general anesthetic agents. Beta-blockers may blunt the effects of the catecholamine surge. Ethanol, sedative-hypnotics, and phenothiazines also reduce the body's ability to respond to low ambient temperatures. ## Evaluation Again, for all potentially unstable patients, the trauma ABCs should be the clinician's initial focus of evaluation. Remove all clothing after finishing the primary survey and place dry, warm blankets on the patients' fully exposed chest. Standard laboratory evaluation should include finger-stick glucose, complete blood count, and a basic metabolic panel. A rise in hemoglobin and hematocrit may be due to cold diuresis from impaired antidiuretic hormone secretion. Glucose levels do not follow a specific pattern unless hypo- or hyperglycemia is triggered in patients with diabetes mellitus. Electrolyte reassessment every 4 hours is recommended when resuscitating patients with hypothermia. A coagulation panel must be obtained when invasive procedures are deemed necessary. However, this test generally requires the patient's in vivo temperature to be 37 °C to be reliable. Fibrinogen should also be checked to rule out disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). Serum lactate, creatinine kinase, troponin, thyroid-stimulating hormone