(TSH), cortisol, toxicology screen, fibrinogen, lipase, and magnesium may be obtained to find non-environmental causes of hypothermia. Imaging should be dictated by clinical need, as some patients may have had an inciting incident like trauma or cerebrovascular accident that led to a significant body temperature drop. Chest x-ray may be normal in the absence of trauma or an underlying thoracic condition. Bedside ultrasound may be used to confirm cardiac activity and volume status. Head computed tomography (CT) may benefit individuals with altered mental status not proportional to the severity of hypothermia, especially if trauma or stroke is suspected.[13] Electrocardiography (ECG) must be obtained due to the frequency of dysrhythmias in patients with hypothermia. Cold temperatures can slow down impulse conduction through potassium channels, prolonging QT intervals. An elevated J point that can produce an Osborn or J wave may also be observed (see **Image**. Osborn wave). This wave most commonly appears in the precordial leads, and its height is proportional to the degree of hypothermia. Any dysrhythmic pattern is possible, but atrial fibrillation is the most common. Bradycardia is more common in patients with moderate to severe hypothermia and increases the risk of ventricular arrhythmia. ## Treatment / Management Hypothermia management focuses on quick rewarming and preventing further heat loss, ensuring that the airway, breathing, and circulation are adequately and promptly addressed. Wet clothing should be immediately removed and replaced with dry clothing or insulation.[14][15] Once emergencies have been ruled out, a more detailed examination must be made, noting the complete history, mental status, physical exam, and core temperature. Patients presenting with symptoms of moderate or severe hypothermia must be moved gently, as movements may increase cardiac irritability and precipitate fatal arrhythmia.[16] Comorbid medical conditions and trauma must also be investigated and addressed.[17] Individuals who have documented hypoglycemia may be supplied oral glucose. Rewarming of hypothermic patients involves passive external rewarming, active external rewarming, active internal rewarming, or a combination of these techniques. The treatment of choice for mild hypothermia is passive external rewarming at a rate of 0.5 to 2 °C per hour. After removing wet clothing, additional insulating layers are placed on the patient's body to prevent heat loss and promote heat retention. Shivering allows the body to produce up to a 5-fold heat increase from baseline spontaneously. However, this method requires adequate glucose stores. Additionally, vigorous shivering can be problematic in people with limited cardiopulmonary reserves as