treatments are often contradictory. Treatment is dictated by the presence or absence of neurologic symptoms. The goal of treatment is the correction of serum sodium and improvement in symptoms. If a patient does not demonstrate neurologic symptoms, EAH is considered mild, and the patient is eligible for oral fluid restriction. Patients restrict their total fluid intake to induce osmotic ADH suppression and, therefore, free water excretion.[2] Patients may also be given concentrated oral sodium repletion, though this may be poorly tolerated due to taste or nausea and vomiting. Proposed regimens include 100 ml of hypertonic saline, 3 or 4 broth bouillon cubes in 125 ml of water, or a serving of salted pretzels.[2] Oral hypertonic saline is as effective as IV hypertonic saline in mild EAH. One study demonstrated faster time to recovery and shorter duration of hospital stay for athletes who receive oral treatment.[5] IV isotonic fluids of any type or volume are not recommended in mild EAH. EAH is considered severe if a patient demonstrates neurologic symptoms (altered mental status, seizure, coma). The patient should receive a bolus of 100 ml of IV hypertonic saline.[2] This can be repeated every 10 minutes for a total of 3 doses. Up to 600-1000 ml over 1 hour of hypertonic saline has been given without complication in case studies, though larger volumes of sodium repletion increase the risk for rapid sodium correction and osmotic demyelination.[8][2] **Hospital** On transfer to the hospital for advanced care, patients with suspected EAH should have immediate measurement of serum sodium and other electrolytes. Treatment in the hospital is similar to that in the field. Athletes with severe hyponatremia or evidence of cerebral edema with neurologic symptoms should be treated with a bolus of hypertonic saline as described above, with a goal serum sodium increase of 4-5 mmol/L and reversal of neurologic symptoms.[2] Patients with EAH encephalopathy may require ICU admission depending upon institutional criteria. ## Differential Diagnosis EAH falls on the spectrum of exertional injuries. The differential diagnosis for exertional injuries includes heat exhaustion, heatstroke, exercise-associated collapse, and exertional collapse associated with sickle cell trait (ECAST). Providers caring for athletes must also consider hypovolemia, hypoglycemia, sudden cardiac arrhythmia (Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, prolonged QT syndrome, channelopathy), hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, sudden cardiac death of unknown cause, seizure, vasovagal syncope, and malingering. ## Prognosis The majority of athletes recover from acute mild EAH within hours in the emergency care setting and