excessive sweating (evaporation).[10] The body initially increases metabolism, ventilation, and cardiac output to maintain function when the ambient temperature drops. Heat loss can overwhelm the body and disrupt the shivering mechanism without external warming. Multiple organ systems, including neurologic, metabolic, and cardiac, will cease to function, ultimately leading to death.[11] Sinoatrial disturbances may result in atrial or ventricular fibrillation. ## History and Physical Hypothermia may result in cardiorespiratory arrest. A quick primary survey—assessing the airway, breathing, circulation, disability, and exposure (ABCDE)—should reveal the need for immediate resuscitation. Patients presenting with unconsciousness, pulselessness, and apnea must be given resuscitative care immediately, regardless of the cause. Once stabilized or if emergency conditions have been ruled out, a more detailed investigation may be started. People who have suffered hypothermia typically have a history of recent significant cold exposure. The presenting symptoms depend on the core body temperature, which must be obtained accurately to diagnose and manage the condition effectively. When used correctly, epitympanic thermometers reflect the carotid artery temperature and can be reasonably reliable. Rectal and bladder temperature measurements are reasonable in conscious individuals with mild to moderate hypothermia. However, these approaches may not be appropriate for critical patients during rewarming, as they lag behind true core temperature. In the prehospital setting, rectal and bladder temperature monitoring may further expose the patient and worsen hypothermia. Esophageal temperature measurement is most accurate when the probe is in the esophageal lower third but should only be performed in patients with an advanced airway in place. Oral temperature is only useful in ruling out hypothermia, as most commercially available thermometers cannot read under 35 °C. Tympanic thermometers are also unreliable. The core body temperature must be obtained immediately, as it is critical in determining the appropriate management. This parameter correlates significantly with the symptoms of each stage of hypothermia, though it can be challenging to obtain in the prehospital setting.[12] In mild hypothermia, the core body temperature ranges from 32 to 35 °C (90-95 °F). The symptoms are often subtle and nonspecific, including hunger, nausea, fatigue, shivering, and pale-dry skin. Patients may also have increased muscle tone, blood pressure, heart rate, and respiration as the body attempts to promote thermogenesis. Shivering is usually present unless the patient's energy stores have been depleted, as in cases of malnutrition or underlying endocrinopathy. Potential neurologic symptoms include cognitive decline, memory and judgment impairment, ataxia, and dysarthria. "Cold diuresis" may