any treatment. The uncertainty regarding the progression of the disease and the severity of the symptoms, along with its poor prognosis, have a profound impact on the quality of life of both patients and their families.[65] Since 2010, IPF survival rates have shown improvement, which may be partly attributed to antifibrotic therapies and earlier diagnosis.[68] Although the actual survival range for individual patients varies considerably, up to 20% to 25% may live beyond 10 years after diagnosis. Despite this, most patients continue to experience dyspnea and limited exercise tolerance, leading to a poor quality of life. Deaths are most common in winter, even in the absence of lung infections. Many patients develop pulmonary hypertension, increasing their risk of pulmonary embolism and sudden cardiac death. The prognosis tends to be worse for those with severe changes noted on imaging findings and a lack of response to oxygen therapy.[69][70] ## Complications Complications associated with IPF include pulmonary hypertension, thromboembolic disease, adverse effects of medications, superimposed lung infections, acute coronary syndrome, and hypoxic respiratory failure. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Currently, specific recommendations for screening or deterrence of F are not available. However, patients diagnosed with IPF should adhere to the following measures:[5][71][72] - They should maintain a healthy weight and engage in exercise regularly. Pulmonary rehabilitation can be utilized for formal exercise training. - They should cease smoking, if applicable. - They should avoid environmental or occupational exposure that could exacerbate lung disease. - They should manage acid reflux as needed. - They should follow up for disease-specific therapies and consider referrals for lung transplants. - They should ensure vaccinations for influenza, pneumococcus, and COVID-19, as individuals with IPF have reduced lung reserve to tolerate respiratory infections. ## Pearls and Other Issues Navigating the complexities of IPF, a disease with potentially life-limiting symptoms, requires early diagnosis and a multidisciplinary approach. - Interdisciplinary management often involves collaboration among various specialists, including pulmonologists, chest radiologists, thoracic surgeons, rheumatologists, and pathologists. - Patients with IPF benefit from referral to an ILD specialty clinic for discussions regarding antifibrotic drug therapies and timely consideration for lung transplant. - Given the increased risk of CAD and acute coronary syndrome in these patients, cardiac calcification scores or other risk stratification measures should be considered as part of their comprehensive care. - All patients should undergo screening for obstructive sleep apnea, GERD, and hypothyroidism, with appropriate treatment initiated as necessary.