be an issue during open-heart surgery. In the presence of an indwelling central venous catheter, a coagulase-negative staphylococcus is frequently found as the causative agent.[4][5][6][7] Native valve endocarditis: - Chiefly involves the mitral valve, followed by the aortic valve - Congenital heart disease or any defect with high flow tension is susceptible - Mitral valve prolapse accounts for about 20% of cases - Degenerative heart disease such as the bicuspid aortic valve, Marfan syndrome, or syphilis. Prosthetic valve endocarditis (PVE) - Early PVE is caused by S aureus and S epidermidis, including MRSA - Streptococci usually cause late PVE Intravenous drug abuse Infective endocarditis: - usually presents with a new murmur and/or pleuritic chest pain - S.aureus is the most common cause, but MRSA rates are increasing - Gram-negative organisms are rarely involved Risk factors - Residual valve injury - Diabetes - Use of steroids - Advanced age - Pacemaker intervention ## Epidemiology It is common to find infective endocarditis as a complication of congenital heart disease or rheumatic heart disease. However, is important to mention that infective endocarditis can present in children without any abnormal valves or cardiac malformations. In developed countries, congenital heart disease is the most important predisposing factor. In approximately 30% of patients with infective endocarditis, a predisposing factor is acknowledged and identified. If a history of dental procedure is recognized, the time range from the procedure may range from 1 to 6 months prior to the onset of symptoms. The existence of endocarditis after routine heart surgery is low; however, in the setting of prosthetic material use, this can be a predisposing factor. ## History and Physical An early manifestation of the disease is mild. Prolonged duration of fever that persists for several months without other manifestations may be the only symptom. On the other hand, the onset can be acute and severe with high, intermittent fever. Associated symptoms are often nonspecific and include fatigue, myalgia, arthralgia, headache, chills, nausea, and vomiting. The presence of a new heart murmur or sounds of changing heart murmur is associated with heart failure. Splenomegaly, Roth spots, Janeway lesions, splinter hemorrhage, Osler nodes and petechial are frequently seen. Neurologic manifestations of meningismus, increased intracranial pressure, altered sensorium, focal neurologic signs, embolic strokes, cerebral abscesses, mycotic aneurysm, and hemorrhage are associated with the staphylococcal disease. Besides neurologic manifestation, staphylococcal disease can present complications like myocardial abscesses and may injure the