Glomerulonephritis - Arterial emboli ## Deterrence and Patient Education There has been a significant reduction in the incidence of infective endocarditis in patients with a history of procedure, thanks to the recommendation of prophylactic treatment. However, not all procedures need prophylaxis. In 2007, the AHA modified their infective endocarditis prophylaxis guidelines, and the indications for prophylaxis were reduced for dental procedures, genitourinary, and gastrointestinal tract procedures.[8][16] Indications for prophylaxis based on 2007 AHA: - Prosthetic cardiac valve or prosthetic material used for cardiac valve repair - Previous infective endocarditis Cardiac Heart Disease (CHD) with: - Unrepaired cyanotic CHD (including shunts and conduits) - CHD entirely repaired with prosthetic material or device, during the first 6 months after the procedure - Repaired CHD with residual defects to the site of a prosthetic patch or prosthetic device - Cardiac transplantation recipients who develop cardiac valvulopathy The particular individual condition of these recommendations makes reasonable direct consultation with pediatric cardiology to determine the ongoing need for prophylaxis. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Endocarditis is a serious life-threatening disorder that is best managed by an interprofessional team that includes a cardiologist, neurologist, infectious disease expert, cardiac surgeon, internist, pharmacist and ICU nurses. Endocarditis has very high morbidity and while the treatment does work, the key today is to try and prevent it in the first place. When patients present, clinicians should: - Consider endocarditis in a patient with a history of IV drug abuse - Do not administer antibiotics to a febrile patient without first obtaining a minimum of 2 sets of blood cultures - When appropriate provide antibiotic prophylaxis prior to surgery and dental procedures. - If the patient is bacteremic, avoid central lines. If there is no other option, the administer bactericidal agents at the same time. The key is to make a prompt diagnosis and start antibiotic treatment. Patients should get serial echos to determine if the treatment is working and assess the valve function. In some cases, valve replacement may be required. The nurse practitioner and pharmacist must be aware of conditions that need antibiotic prophylaxis prior to any surgery or dental procedure. Further, patients need to be told to stop IV drug abuse. The interprofessional team should follow every patient with endocarditis to ensure that optimal care is provided. **Outcomes** Even with optimal treatment, endocarditis is associated with high morbidity and mortality. Healthcare workers should be aware of new