proteins, after repeated cycles of activation, give rise to accumulation of connective tissue.[11] The trigger can be a known agent that deposited within the lung tissues. In some cases, the fibrosis arises spontaneously. ## History and Physical The most frequently reported symptom is a gradual onset of dyspnea, but sometimes it may simply be a cough. For example, in patients with bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia, an unrelenting cough is usually the presenting symptom.[12] Pleuritic chest pain is uncommon overall but does occur in some subtypes such as sarcoidosis. Hemoptysis may present from diffuse alveolar hemorrhages. On the other hand, a patient can be completely asymptomatic but have abnormal imaging. The history should include details regarding potential environmental or occupational exposures, current and past medications lists, history of any radiation exposures, fumes, dust, toxic inhalation. Family history is essential as genetics can play a role. Symptoms of rheumatologic diseases should be considered, but always keep in mind that dyspnea may be the only presenting symptom for rheumatological-associated interstitial lung disease. On physical exam, bibasilar crackles are characteristics but not necessarily a consistent finding. Patients with advanced disease may have digital clubbing or physical signs of pulmonary hypertension such as increased intensity of P2 of the second heart sound. ## Evaluation Determining the cause and severity of interstitial lung disease can be difficult. A clinician may be able to reach a diagnosis with a detailed history and supporting laboratory but might need to involve an interprofessional team for a higher diagnostic yield.[13] Interstitial lung disease deals with a diversified collection of disorders with different management approach and prognosis, which is why arriving at a final diagnosis, is paramount. It starts with a detailed patient history and physical exam coupled with laboratory testing, imaging, physiologic testing and possibly a biopsy. Initial routine laboratory evaluation consists of complete blood count to check for evidence of hemolytic anemia for example, as can be seen in SLE, or eosinophilia, as can be seen in drug-induced. Laboratory testing should also include hepatic function, renal function, and serologic studies. In some cases may, infectious studies may be appropriate (HIV, hepatitis). Imaging workup starts with a routine chest radiograph. The most common radiographic feature observed is a reticular pattern, however nodular or mixed patterns can be seen.[14] Occasionally some of these patterns can help you narrow down the possibilities. The presence of mediastinal lymphadenopathy on an XRay might signify