contribute to stroke prevention efforts. Through comprehensive efforts targeting both individual behaviors and societal factors, it is possible to mitigate the burden of ischemic stroke and enhance overall public health. ## Pearls and Other Issues Clinical pearls that offer valuable insights into the management and care of patients with ischemic stroke include the following: - Have a low threshold for evaluation of stroke, especially in at-risk populations. TIME IS BRAIN! - Stroke symptoms depend on the ischemic area of the brain and, therefore, vary. - Noncontrast head CT is the first imaging indicated for acute stroke, mainly to rule out hemorrhage. - Consider TPA or TNK if thrombotic CVA is identified within 4.5 hours of symptom onset. - When indicated, an early CT angiogram or MR angiogram with perfusion study should be obtained to look for LVO and initiate endovascular thrombectomy therapy within 6 to 24 hours. - Be aware of presenting blood pressure. Blood pressure management recommendations may include aggressive blood pressure management or permissive hypertension, depending on the type of stroke and whether IV fibrinolytic is indicated. - Start an antiplatelet agent within 24 hours of presentation. - Consider other risk factor management, including addressing hyperlipidemia, hyperglycemia, and cardiac arrhythmias that may increase the risk of vascular disease or a thrombotic event. - Consider early and aggressive physical and occupational therapy after the onset of CVA. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes The effective management of ischemic stroke demands a cohesive and interprofessional healthcare team dedicated to delivering patient-centered care, improving outcomes, and maximizing safety and team performance. This approach includes physicians, advanced care practitioners, nurses, pharmacists, neuroimaging technicians, rehabilitation therapists, and stroke specialists working together. Prompt recognition and treatment of ischemic stroke is critical. Emergency medicine providers must be adept at identifying early stroke symptoms to initiate immediate care. Neuroimaging technicians and radiologists are essential for quickly obtaining and interpreting scans such as CTs and MRIs, which are vital for confirming the diagnosis of ischemic stroke. Neurointeventionalists may be needed to provide interventions such as thrombectomies. Pharmacists play a crucial role in ensuring the timely administration of thrombolytic agents when appropriate and in managing the patient's medication regimen to prevent complications and secondary strokes. Nurses monitor patients closely for changes in condition and manage care protocols. Rehabilitation therapists are vital to the patient's recovery process, starting in the acute phase and continuing through long-term rehabilitation. The prognosis for