be treated with atropine.[14] If pharmacologic treatment is not successful, patients require decompression or surgery, which carries additional risks due to bowel distension.[14][19] Patients with impending perforation, cecal ischemia, or fecal peritonitis require an emergency intervention. A cecostomy can be performed on a viable bowel or during right colectomy, as opposed to subtotal colectomy for ischemia and perforation. Tube cecostomy may be a viable option for patients who are stable but have not resolved and can performed through an open, laparoscopic, or percutaneous approach.[14] **Alternative Interventions** Adjuncts and alternative treatments have been used for colonic obstruction. Laser coagulation may facilitate the dilation of benign strictures, but treating the underlying cause is essential. For example, antituberculosis medications are used for an obstruction from tuberculosis. Disimpaction may be attempted, digitally or through an enema, for a nonperforated, obstructing stool impaction. If successful, this is followed by a maintenance bowel regimen. Alternatives to surgery have been described for pathology within the colon, including the use of fibrin glue for fistulae and perforations, but the recurrence rate is high with these modalities. Endoscopic treatments have been applied selectively, including through-the-scope and over-the-scope methods, endoscopic suturing, and tracking systems.[35] ## Differential Diagnosis Colon function may be disrupted by both mechanical and functional processes, including: - Diverticulitis - Malignancy - Small bowel obstruction - Abdominal hernia - Appendicitis - Inflammatory bowel disease - Pelvic inflammatory disease - Systemic or localized inflammatory process - Carcinomatosis - Ileus - Colonic pseudo-obstruction - Toxic megacolon - Ischemic colitis - Mesenteric ischemia - Volvulus - Abscess - Colonic intussusception - Foreign body - Infection - Radiation - Anatomic variant ## Pertinent Studies and Ongoing Trials In 2022, the Colorectal Endoscopic Stenting Trial (CReST) demonstrated that stenting for left-sided colon malignancy alleviated obstruction in 82% of patients and reduced the rate of emergent stoma formation without a difference in 30-day mortality or 3-year recurrence rates.[44] In 2022, Kanaka et al. analyzed complications and mortality rates associated with stenting for right-sided colon cancers as a bridge to surgery versus emergency resection. Their findings indicated that stenting led to fewer postoperative complications and lower mortality compared to emergency surgery.[45] A retrospective study conducted in China examined 1474 individuals who underwent surgery for colonic obstruction and identified factors related to diagnosis and prognosis. The authors found biologic markers, cell populations, and enzymes positively correlated with obstruction, including carcinoembryonic antigen, carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA 19-9),