acutely than many other etiologies, with abdominal pain, distension, and an abrupt change in bowel habits. The examination of the abdomen reveals significant distension, tympany, and potentially guarding and rebound.[23] A cecal volvulus can present as a small bowel obstruction with variation in symptom duration. In rare cases, a volvulus may present with shock or as intermittent and chronic symptomology.[14] Individuals experiencing pseudo-obstruction may be initially indistinguishable from those with a mechanical obstruction, but pain may not feature as prominently. Individuals with pseudo-obstruction may continue to pass flatus and may experience constipation or diarrhea but also exhibit increasing abdominal distension.[14][19] **Clinical Features of Other Etiology-Associated Obstruction** Patients with obstruction due to diverticular disease may present with pain, fever, and a palpable mass, along with distension proximal to the site of obstruction. Large bowel obstruction secondary to a hernia may be associated with a reducible or irreducible mass and overlying skin changes. Sites of herniation that can cause large bowel obstruction include spigelian, lumbar, inguinal, diaphragmatic, lumbar, and intermesenteric regions. A large bowel obstruction due to endometriosis may be characterized by a history of pelvic pain, dysmenorrhea, rectal pain, or pain during bowel movements. A clinical history of obstructive etiologies, such as uterine fibroids or pelvic malignancy, may include symptoms such as dysmenorrhea or irregular menstrual cycles. Large bowel obstruction due to stool impaction is often observed in patients with a history of chronic constipation or the use of medications that reduce bowel motility. Stool impaction is more common in chronically ill or impaired individuals or those with psychiatric or medical conditions that predispose to constipation and bowel irregularity. Affected patients typically present with distension, pain, and fecal incontinence and may develop a stercol ulcer that can cause perforation. A digital rectal examination may reveal a hard stool mass in the rectum. Retroperitoneal fibrosis can cause colonic obstruction, leading to back, flank, and abdominal pain, fevers, fatigue, and weight loss. Clinical features of colonic intussusception can be nonspecific and may include pain, nausea and vomiting, fever, bowel changes, hematochezia, and a mass identified on imaging.[8][21] A person with a perforated colon shows signs of peritonitis, with diffuse rebound and guarding, and may have physiologic distress, including tachycardia and hypotension. Pain may be sharp, radiate to the pelvis, epigastrium, or chest, and may be acute in onset with accompanied fevers, chills, nausea, and vomiting.[24] ## Evaluation Obtaining a detailed history, performing a