multiple interventions involving alleviation of the obstruction, followed by a multi-stage oncologic resection and restoration of continuity. Patients with advanced disease may undergo palliative intervention. The surgical approach differs by anatomical location and disease stage.[5] In patients with metastatic disease, a defunctioning stoma can allow for the timely start of chemotherapy. Patients with early-stage nonmetastatic disease may undergo resection with anastomosis, followed by adjuvant therapy as necessary. A two-stage operation remains common, including an initial primary resection with a colostomy or a diverting colostomy, followed by resection or reanastomosis. In experienced hands, laparoscopy has been associated with fewer complications, increased 3-year overall survival, and disease-free survival.[39][5] A single-stage operation for a malignant obstruction, including washout, resection, and primary anastomosis, is recommended for individuals younger than 70 with an ASA score of I or II without significant comorbidities. A study involving 600 patients with right-sided malignant obstructions indicated higher complication and mortality rates in those undergoing a single-staged procedure; however, their 5-year overall and disease-free survival rates were comparable to patients who underwent a multi-stage procedure.[40] A Japanese study highlighted increased 90-day mortality in adults older than 75 who underwent primary resection for obstructed colon cancer.[41] The World Journal of Emergency Surgery (WJES) treatment guidelines for perforated colon cancer, if the perforation is at the tumor site, recommend resection with anastomosis for a right- or left-sided process if there is no sepsis. If left-sided cancer perforates at a site proximal to the tumor, a subtotal colectomy may be required. In this setting, the recommendation is, if possible, limited resection of the terminal ileum and allowance for a distal colon remnant above peritoneal reflection to reduce the impact of diarrhea and stool incontinence. No randomized controlled studies exist that compare the creation of an anastomosis versus a diverting stoma in the perforation setting, and an overlap in the percentage of anastomotic leaks is present when comparing emergent and elective cases. The WJES supports resection with anastomosis for right-sided obstructing cancers and an internal bypass versus stenting for nonresectable tumors and palliative situations. An option for right-sided stenting includes using a self-expanding through-the-scope stent. Neoadjuvant therapy is the standard of care for locally advanced rectal cancer, and a transverse colostomy may be created in this setting. The WJES asserts that stool in the colon does not affect the rate of anastomotic dehiscence.[1] The optimal surgical approach for malignant obstruction remains a topic of