debate, both in curative and palliative settings, for elective and emergent situations. Significant discussion persists regarding single- versus two-stage procedures for left-sided obstruction. Many stomas do not get reversed, and individuals who undergo reversal are subject to possible increased morbidity and mortality, with uncertain long-term survival benefits. Age, ASA status, operative conditions, cancer stage, and surgeon experience all influence outcomes. The use of tube decompression for left-sided malignant obstruction as a bridge to surgery remains debated, suggesting that palliative stenting is preferable to a colostomy due to lower morbidity and mortality. Studies comparing colostomy to stenting found similar morbidity but shorter recovery for stenting, but stent migration and perforations increased morbidity and mortality. Stent complications may be associated with the use of drugs such as bevacizumab, an antiangiogenic. Stenting may increase the potential for a successful subsequent laparoscopic tumor resection but may promote tumor dissemination and lymph node invasion and pose an increased risk for perforation, both of which impact disease-free survival. However, many studies comparing stenting to emergency surgery found no difference in recurrence, 3-year, or 5-year mortality.[1] **Etiology-Guided Interventions** For patients with sigmoid volvulus, tube decompression should be attempted with a rigid or flexible sigmoidoscope. A rectal tube is left in place following successful decompression to allow egress of gas and prevent recurrence. Many cases of sigmoid volvulus ultimately require resection or fixation of the sigmoid colon. Patients who cannot be decompressed require more urgent surgery.[1][42][43] A cecal volvulus typically mandates more urgent intervention. In limited cases, the intervention for a cecal volvulus may consist of fixation rather than resection. Creating a cecostomy, while the least invasive, carries the highest mortality and complication risk compared to the relatively low mortality of resection. An incarcerated hernia may be successfully reduced, but surgery is required for irreversible ischemia and an irreducible or strangulated hernia.[14] Obstruction from endometriosis can be treated with stenting or resection. Retroperitoneal fibrosis is responsive to steroids and immunomodulation, but a large bowel obstruction from this etiology typically requires surgery. If a colonic stricture is identified during an evaluation for a large bowel obstruction, it is important to rule out malignancy before deciding upon an intervention.[8] A person diagnosed with pseudo-obstruction may benefit from neostigmine, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, which can resolve the pseudo-obstruction in up to 94% of cases. A standard dose is 2.0 mg of intravenous neostigmine, with bradycardia being a common side effect that can