thorough physical examination, and conducting imaging are crucial in evaluating a suspected large bowel obstruction. Laboratory tests for anemia, infection, renal function, and electrolytes are initiated to drive resuscitation and focused treatment, including infusion of contrast for imaging.[25][26][27] Leukocytosis and acidosis may indicate tissue ischemia. In addition, testing for _Clostridium difficile_ and any electrolyte dysfunction should be conducted to help direct therapy and decision-making.[14] **Diagnostic Imaging Studies** Imaging typically begins with supine and upright or decubitus x-rays, which can reveal a dilated colon with a possible transition in the area of the obstruction and a lack of gas in the rectum or any site distal to the obstruction. Air-fluid levels may be evident in the colon. Evidence of necrosis or perforation may also be identified in an x-ray through findings such as pneumoperitoneum and gas in the bowel wall or portal venous system.[19][28][29] A suspected obstruction identified on plain film must be distinguished from an ileus or pseudo-obstruction. Ileus may be caused by recent surgery, illness, neurologic or metabolic dysfunction, and demonstrates diffuse dilation without a transition point. Instilling a contrast enema can reliably distinguish mechanical from pseudo-obstruction. A toxic megacolon may be identified by bowel wall thickening throughout the colon. Imaging the patient in multiple postural positions can help assess colonic gas patterns. Air-fluid levels are typically absent in a pseudo-obstruction. Determining the underlying etiology of colonic distension based on X-rays can be challenging. Therefore, computed tomography (CT) is often necessary.[19] CT can often reveal the specific etiology of large bowel obstruction, such as occult hernia, demonstrate any inflammatory or ischemic changes, and provide information regarding metastases. Intravenous contrast is useful in evaluating an obstruction; oral contrast is contraindicated. Water-soluble rectal contrast can be administered if further clarification is needed to help elucidate a volvulus or mass; a rectal enema may be used if a colonoscopy with biopsy is attempted. A colonoscopy can be performed with minimal insufflation and can provide a tissue diagnosis, including endometriosis, if the mucosa is involved.[8][19] For suspected malignancy, the entire colon should be evaluated, given the risk for synchronous lesions. CT or positron emission tomography can be used when a full colonoscopy is not feasible.[5] A sigmoid or cecal volvulus is often evident on an x-ray. A volvulus may demonstrate the classically described coffee bean or bird beak signs. A sigmoid volvulus may extend as a U-shape into the right upper quadrant or