colostomy reversal is associated with anastomotic leak, with a reported mortality of 8.3%.[5][49] ## Consultations Providing care for a patient with a large bowel obstruction requires collaboration among various specialties, including gastroenterology, interventional radiology, medical and surgical oncology, and colorectal surgery. ## Deterrence and Patient Education An increasing incidence of colorectal cancer in individuals younger than 50 has been observed, and clinicians should be prepared to discuss this trend with their patients and provide education and screening recommendations.[50] ## Pearls and Other Issues In medical centers with interventional radiologists or gastroenterologists, a colonic stent can be inserted using a colonoscope under direct visualization to decompress the bowel and allow for elective surgery when the patient has been clinically optimized. In facilities without advanced technology or expertise, a rectal or nasogastric tube may allow for temporary decompression, but a stoma or resection is often necessary. Patients with a large bowel obstruction from any etiology should be closely monitored. The duration of abdominal distension is more closely associated with the risk for perforation than absolute diameter, and lack of timely intervention can result in significant clinical consequences.[18] Clinicians must maintain a high index of suspicion for any indication of perforation, including the possibility of missing an occult perforation on an x-ray or ultrasound.[1] The morbidity and mortality of large bowel obstruction depend on the etiology and presence of comorbidities. In most cases, early intervention results in better outcomes. Mortality is significantly higher with bowel perforation or necrosis. Mortality rates of 15% to 30% have been reported in patients with perforation during large bowel obstruction. Recent use of self-expandable metallic stents for malignant bowel obstruction has yielded good short-term results, but long-term survival is not greatly altered.[17][51] ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Managing large bowel obstruction requires an interprofessional approach with coordinated communication among healthcare team members. Clinicians, including surgeons, gastroenterologists, oncologists, and radiologists, play a central role in diagnosis, imaging interpretation, and surgical intervention, supported by interventionalists and intensivists when critical. Nurses and advanced practitioners maintain ongoing monitoring and patient education, whereas pharmacists contribute expertise on medications, including antibiotics and pain management. After surgery, dietitians provide nutritional guidance to patients with ileostomies or colostomies, who also receive specialized care from a stoma nurse. Physical, occupational, and respiratory therapists support rehabilitation, whereas patient navigators ensure continuity of care, especially for oncology follow-up. Effective team communication, particularly in the operating room and intensive care