Longer needles are also difficult to steer. The larger gauge spinal needles, more than 22 gauge, are challenging to navigate. Only the introducer of the coaxial system with a smaller gauge such as 18 gauge is helpful to reach the thecal sac without penetrating. Then the 22 or 25 gauge needle is entered into the thecal sac via the introducer.The needle has a hub and beveled tip. The hub has a notch on the same side of the bevel. The notch of the needle acts as a marker and corresponds to the direction of the bevel. The sharp tip steers the needle. Hence, to direct the needle in the desired direction notch should be on the opposite side. We insert the needle in the inter-laminar space, an oval area of radiolucency on either side of the spinous process. The entry site should be directly above the inter-laminar area and marked with a narrow tip surgical pen; if performed accurately, correct marking of the entry site dramatically reduces the procedure time and patient discomfort. We insert the needle with the notch on the opposite to the physician's side.Bracing hands against the patients' back during the needle advancement is essential to avoid patient movement and sudden jerks. We initially advance the needle every 1 cm before checking for the needle tip and the hub position on fluoroscopy and avoiding parallax as much as possible. Then we rotate the needle by 1/4th circle to ensure that the needle traverses in a straight line. The prone approach visualizes the entire length of the needle trajectory on the cross-table lateral view. So we do not hesitate to obtain a lateral radiograph whenever a biplane camera is not available. The deviation of the needle path from the desired course can result in repeat attempts and delays and patient discomfort. Once the needle crosses the paraspinal muscles, we check the needle positioning every mm while the needle is advancing through ligamentum flavum. We frequently check for the CSF flow by removing the stylet. We recommend keeping the bevel parallel to the long axis of the nerves while penetrating the dura. After the dural puncture, you get the sensation of giving off. Then rotating the needle perpendicular to the nerves eases the CSF flow. It is important to remember that the stylet should be within the needle every time before advancing or rotating. Immediately deep into the ligamentum