lung cancer patients. The current practice is to check for the following mutations in every advanced NSCLC. Each of these mutations has a specific inhibitor available: 1. EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor) is a mutation inhibited by tyrosine kinase inhibitors erlotinib, gefitinib, and afatinib.[36] 1. ALK (Anaplastic lymphoma kinase) includes the specific inhibitors crizotinib, ceritinib, and alectinib. A structurally similar mutation is ROS-1. The FDA recently approved crizotinib for treating cancers expressing ROS-1 mutation. **Immunotherapy for NSCLC** Immunotherapy boosts the immune system and helps it recognize cancer cells as foreign, and increases their responsiveness. There are several check-points to decrease autoimmunity and autodestruction of the body’s cells by the immune system. Malignant cells co-opt these check-points and create tolerance in the immune system. Of these check-points, programmed-death receptor 1 (PD-1) has been of particular interest recently. PD-1 plays an important role in down-regulating T-cells and promotes self-tolerance. However, it also renders the immune system less effective against tumor cells. PD-1 interacts with two proteins: PD-L1 and PD-L2. This binding results in the inactivation of activated T-cells. At the moment, there are antibodies approved for PD-1 and its ligand, PD-L1 only. They inhibit the PD-1 receptor directly or bind to PD-L1, thus preventing it from inactivating the activated T-cell. Nivolumab is an IgG4 monoclonal antibody against PD-1. It is approved by the FDA for squamous and non-squamous NSCLC that has progressed after platinum-based chemotherapy. It can be used in patients with high or low PD-L1 expression status. Pembrolizumab is also an IgG4 monoclonal antibody against PD-1. It is approved for pre-treated metastatic NSCLC with greater than 50% expression of PD-L1 and does not harbor EGFR and ALK mutations. It is also combined with pemetrexed and carboplatin for metastatic non-squamous NSCLC with less than 50% expression of PD-L1. Atezolizumab is an IgG1 antibody against PD-L1. It is approved for use in metastatic, progressive NSCLC during or following treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy. It can be used in patients who express EGFR and ALK mutations and fail targeted therapy. Bevacizumab is not considered immune therapy. It is an anti-angiogenesis antibody that inhibits vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A). It is primarily used in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy to treat non-squamous NSCLC. It is contraindicated in squamous cell NSCLC due to the risk of severe and often fatal hemoptysis. It is also used to treat breast, renal, colon, and brain cancers.[37][13] **Small Cell Lung Cancer