secondary to hematologic spread, blood cultures and echocardiography are essential in determining the appropriate management. ## Treatment / Management Clinicians should consider empiric antibiotic therapy in patients suspected of having a lung abscess. Empiric coverage should target colonized organisms in the upper airway and oropharynx, including gram-positive cocci, gram-negative cocci, and aerobic and anaerobic gram-negative bacilli. If the patient is exposed to healthcare set 3 months before the presentation, coverage for methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ (MRSA) should be considered. Atypical organisms can be found in the setting of an abscess that is not improving with broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy. Poor prognostic factors include individuals who are older or with severe comorbidities, immunosuppression, bronchial obstruction, and neoplasms. Beta-lactamase inhibitors (eg, ticarcillin-clavulanate, ampicillin-sulbactam, amoxicillin-clavulanate, and piperacillin-tazobactam) are the preferred initial empiric antibiotic therapy followed by imipenem or meropenem.[14] Clindamycin, as an empiric treatment for lung abscess, is no longer recommended given the risk of _Clostridium difficile_ infection, but it remains an alternative for penicillin-allergic patients. For MRSA, vancomycin or linezolid are preferred. Daptomycin has no activity against pulmonary infections.[15] For methicillin-sensitive _Staphylococcus aureus_ , preferred pharmacologic treatments are cefazolin 2 g intravenously (IV) every 8 hours, nafcillin 2 gm IV every 4 hours, or oxacillin 2 gm IV every 4 hours. Dosing adjustment is considered in patients with compromised renal function. Antibiotic duration is usually around 3 weeks but varies depending on clinical response. Clinicians should consider switching to oral antibiotics once patients are afebrile, stable, and able to tolerate an oral diet. Amoxicillin-clavulanate is the drug of choice for oral antibiotics for lung abscesses.[16] Metronidazole, as a single therapy, does not appear particularly useful due to polymicrobial flora.[17] Abscesses larger than 6 cm are unlikely to resolve with antibiotic therapy alone and might require surgical or percutaneous intervention.[2] In patients who fail to respond to medical therapy, surgical intervention is considered with lobectomy or pneumonectomy.[18] In patients who are poor surgical candidates, percutaneous and endoscopic drainage is considered.[19] When the clinical response is inadequate, associated conditions or alternative diagnoses are considered, especially for certain fungi and mycobacteria. Empyema sometimes might be misdiagnosed as a parenchymal abscess. Antibiotic administration has proven beneficial in the case of chronic lung abscesses.[20] Additionally, in the case of hematologic causes of lung abscess, any underlying conditions (eg, infective endocarditis, septic thromboembolism) should be thoroughly treated. ## Differential Diagnosis Differential diagnoses that should be considered when evaluating patients with