malignant epithelial components and features that suggest sarcomas. Subtypes include pleomorphic carcinoma, carcinosarcoma, and pulmonary blastoma. **Small Cell Carcinoma** Small cell carcinoma (SCLC) is composed of round, oval, or angulated cells, with a small amount of cytoplasm and size roughly that of a resting lymphocyte. No distinct nucleoli are seen. SCLCs are extensively necrotic. They usually stain positive with chromogranin or synaptophysin. The WHO previously classified SCLC into three cell subtypes: oat cell, intermediate cell, and combined cell (SCLC with NSCLC component, squamous, or adenocarcinoma). However, studies have shown that such classification does not have much clinical significance or prognostic value.[18] ## History and Physical No specific signs and symptoms exist for lung cancer. Most patients already have advanced disease at the time of presentation. Lung cancer symptoms occur due to local effects of the tumor, such as cough due to bronchial compression by the tumor due to distant metastasis, stroke-like symptoms secondary to brain metastasis, paraneoplastic syndrome, and kidney stones due to persistent hypercalcemia.[19] Cough is present in 50 to 75% of patients with lung cancer.[2] Cough productive of large volumes of thin, mucoid secretions is seen in mucinous adenocarcinoma. In some cases, especially those with exophytic bronchial masses, a cough may signify secondary post-obstructive pneumonia. Hemoptysis is present in 15 to 30% of patients with lung cancer.[2] Chest pain is present in approximately 20 to 40% of patients with lung cancer, and dyspnea may be present in as many as 25 to 40% of the cases at the time of diagnosis.[2] These symptoms, however, may be primarily due to lung cancer or due to underlying bronchopulmonary disease. Pleural involvement in lung cancer can manifest as pleural thickening/nodules or a malignant pleural effusion. During the course of their illness, approximately 10 to 15% of patients with lung cancer will have a malignant pleural effusion, with some showing a unilateral pleural effusion as the only presenting feature.[20] Bronchogenic carcinoma with associated ipsilateral malignant pleural effusion is considered unresectable; however, it must be noted that not all pleural effusions in patients with lung cancer are malignant.[21] A benign pleural effusion may occur due to lymphatic obstruction, post-obstructive pneumonitis, or atelectasis. If two consecutive cytology specimens are negative for malignancy in patients with bronchogenic carcinoma, surgical thoracoscopy or medical pleuroscopy is recommended to evaluate the pleural space before surgical resection of a primary lesion.[22] Medical pleuroscopy has a sensitivity of greater than