field strength (1.5T being superior to 3T), increasing bandwidth, decreasing slice selection size, increasing matrix size, and use of long echo train lengths with spin-echo sequences.[19] Traditionally, gadolinium-based contrast is administered when evaluating for masses or bone lesions. The clinical benefits of MRI outweigh the cost when characterizing bone lesions or masses, supporting the role imaging plays in diagnosing neoplasms.[16] Imaging evaluation of the musculoskeletal system is not limited to plain radiographs and MRIs. It is important to remember that nuclear medicine bone scans, positron emission tomography, ultrasound, and computed tomography all contribute to achieving an accurate diagnosis. ## Issues of Concern Issues of concern regarding MRI revolve around nonionizing radiation when imaging vulnerable patient populations, the use of contrast agents, and logistical concerns for the patients, some of which are addressed earlier in this topic. When ordering an MRI, it is important to scrutinize the clinical question, the patient’s clinical status, psychological factors, and the length of time required for the exam and weigh the risks and benefits. - There is abundant information published about gadolinium and paramagnetic contrast agents. A glomerular filtration rate of less than 30 is a contraindication to receiving gadolinium contrast. Due to impaired contrast clearance, these patients are at increased risk of developing a systemic phenomenon called nephrogenic systemic fibrosis. - The effect of MRI contrast on pregnancy is largely unknown and, therefore, avoided. Since gadolinium contrast is excreted quickly, nursing mothers can resume breastfeeding 36 to 48 hours after having an MRI. No deleterious effects have been documented from MRI during pregnancy, and for this reason, a medically indicated MRI can be performed in any trimester. The risk of harming the pregnancy versus the benefit of the scan should be considered, and the MRI should wait until after pregnancy when appropriate.[20] - A common patient concern regarding the utilization of MRI imaging is claustrophobia and anxiety during the MRI exam. Anxiety attacks have been found to occur in as many as 2% of MRIs, with as many as 1% resulting in premature cessation of the study.[4] - Proximity to the magnetic field is a source of risk for the patient, and stepwise measures are in place to ensure that ferromagnetic materials do not breach specific zones surrounding the magnet. All patients are screened before MR imaging is approved, but special attention should be paid to those with known exposure to shrapnel, bullets, or