"high radiation risk" patients like pregnant women and children. MRI is also valuable for patients with chronic conditions requiring routine imaging surveillance, such as multiple sclerosis and inflammatory bowel diseases.[5] MRI does not exist without hazard – the magnetic field can be dangerous, and strict parameters are in place to ensure patient safety. Pre-imaging screening protocols are in place to assess the patient’s risk factors ranging from occupational exposures to surgically implanted devices determined to be incompatible with the magnetic field. Though many of the newer generation implanted devices are MR compatible, it is crucial to consult with both the radiologist and MR technologists. The magnetic field can alter implanted devices and result in loss of function, positioning, and temperature changes. Additionally, while some prosthetic devices- like heart valves, stents, and artificial joints- are MR-safe, they may cause signal artifacts that limit the diagnostic quality of the exam.[6] While not all-inclusive, this topic provides information for clinicians to consider when ordering MR imaging. ## Function Traditionally, MRI is an adjunct or complementary imaging exam following initial evaluation with more accessible and cost-effective modalities, like radiographs, ultrasound, or computed tomography (CT). The goal is to characterize a finding using the specific magnetic properties of the tissues and, less commonly, to guide biopsy. **Neurological** : MRI is broadly useful for imaging the central nervous system. It is a beautiful addition to non-contrast CT to evaluate for acute and subacute infarcts, headaches, seizure evaluation, and following a neoplastic process. Considering the time-sensitive nature of stroke evaluation, a non-contrast-enhanced MRI of the brain is indicated for patients following a non-contrast CT of the head/brain to evaluate for ischemic stroke. Image sequences based on the diffusion coefficient of water in the brain parenchyma can demonstrate areas of hyperacute ischemia.[7] A small study of 120 patients demonstrated DWI (diffusion-weighted imaging) detection of infarcts within 3 hours of onset, preceding abnormal signal findings on fluid attenuating inversion images, which may not present for 3 TO 6 hours.[8] There is variable clinical use and availability of perfusion imaging to estimate the extent of infarct and compromised parenchyma, which is beyond this topic's scope. CT angiography is the gold standard of craniocervical vascular imaging to rule out obstruction, high-grade stenosis, or dissection. MR angiography could be considered in patients with diminished renal function. Time-of-flight MR angiography is a multidimensional (2-D or 3-D) technique that maps the imaged vessels while