posterior leaflet length of 6 mm. In comparison, the longer MitraClip clips XT and XTW require a minimal posterior leaflet length of 9 mm.[24] Furthermore, a transmitral gradient of less than 5 mm Hg and a mitral valve area of at least 4 cm2 are desirable to minimize the risk of mitral stenosis. If the mitral valve area is ≤3 cm2, it is considered a contraindication for mitral transcatheter edge-to-edge repair (TEER), and the decision to proceed in borderline cases can be individualized based on the severity and location of MR and the anticipated number of devices needed. The mitral valve area should be measured using 3-dimensional (3D) multiplanar reformatting to avoid overestimation errors. Patients with an extensive flail, defined as a flail segment width of 15 mm or greater or a flail gap of 10 mm or greater, were not included in the initial clinical trials for TEER therapy, such as EVEREST 2.[10] Despite this, treating degenerative mitral valve disease with a flail leaflet is an important application of TEER therapy; this condition can be associated with higher mortality risk in older individuals.[25] The presence of a flail leaflet segment can predict a greater acute improvement in mean left atrium pressure after TEER. Improvement in left atrium pressure after TEER has been linked to improved functional status.[26] Treating wider and larger flail gaps is now possible with the availability of longer and wider TEER devices. The development of independent leaflet grasping technology has enabled the treatment of larger and wider flail gaps. This technology is available with the MitraClip G4 and the PASCAL transcatheter mitral valve repair systems, allowing for the initial capture of the flail segment, followed by the steering of the delivery system to the nonflail leaflet. (This ensures both leaflets have a sufficient and stable grasp, thus facilitating the treatment of larger and wider flail gaps.) In its selection criteria, the EVEREST 2 trial only enrolled patients with a primary regurgitant mitral jet originating from the central region of the mitral valve, specifically the A2-P2 segments.[10] However, this approach led to a significant portion of patients with noncentral MR being excluded from TEER treatment, leaving them untreated. Noncentral MR, which originates from the commissures and extends to involve the leaflet edges, constitutes nearly a third of all cases of significant MR.[27][28] When deploying TEER devices in these cases, unique challenges emerge, particularly when dealing with large