feature of ALF. Bleeding events are rare despite the presence of severe coagulopathy. Hence routine correction of coagulopathy is not recommended unless in the setting of overt bleeding or before invasive procedures. Transfusions of platelets, plasma, and cryoprecipitate, may be given if indicated. Recombinant factor VII an administration can cause thrombus; parenteral vitamin K therapy (slow intravenous infusion) may be considered if a nutritional deficiency is suspected or in cases of prolonged cholestasis. **Liver Support and Liver Transplantation** The etiology of ALF and the hospital prognosis could help physicians ascertain whether a particular patient is likely to improve or not, and hence need a liver transplant. Those several selection criteria for patients with ALF, to determine the need for liver transplantation exists, it is neither universally accepted, nor fully endorsed by the AASLD as the sole criteria to decide on liver transplantation. Extracorporeal liver-assist devices have been used in clinical trials in patients with ALF with the aim of detoxification and restore synthetic functions. Recent multicenter trials involving the molecular adsorbent recirculating system and the porcine hepatocyte-based HepaAssist device have both shown to be of no survival benefit. Liver transplantation, though not readily available is an option for selected patients. Because these patients are critically ill, they are at increased risk of graft complications, most commonly from infections and sepsis, which seems to be the most common etiology of liver graft failure in patients transplanted following ALF. ## Differential Diagnosis - Acute fatty liver of pregnancy - _Amanita phalloides_ mushroom poisoning - _Bacillus cereus toxin_ - Fructose intolerance - Galactosemia - HELLP (hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, low platelets) syndrome of pregnancy - Hemorrhagic viruses ( Ebola virus, Lassa virus, and Marburg virus) - Idiopathic drug reaction (hypersensitivity) - Neonatal iron storage disease - Tyrosinemia ## Prognosis The expected clinical outcomes have drastically changed since ALF was first defined approximately 50 years ago. The current 1-year survival rate of patients, including those undergoing liver transplantation, is greater than 65%. In the past, studies from the United States and Europe had indicated a lower 1-year survival rate of patients with ALF receiving a liver transplant when compared to their counterparts in patients with cirrhosis. However, the 2012 registry from the United States and Europe indicates a higher survival rate up to 79% at 1 year and 72% at 5 years. The most widely used criteria for determining ALF prognosis are the King's