day, which is approximately 14 to 15 grams. ## Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnoses for acute myocarditis include: - Acute coronary syndrome - Pericarditis - Coronary vasospasm - Stress cardiomyopathy - Drug-induced myocardial injury (eg, cocaine and chemotherapy) - Thyrotoxic cardiomyopathy - Infective endocarditis with septic coronary emboli ## Staging The 2024 ACC ECDP outlines a 4-tier staging system for myocarditis, as mentioned below, which is modeled after the heart failure classification system.[5] - Stage A (at risk): Individuals in this stage are exposed to risk factors for myocarditis but show no clinical symptoms or structural, biochemical, imaging, or histopathological evidence of disease. Examples include patients receiving cardiotoxic medications, those with recent viral infections or autoimmune disorders, and individuals with a genetic predisposition or a personal history of myocarditis. - Stage B (asymptomatic): Patients with evidence of myocardial inflammation, detected through imaging modalities such as cardiac MRI, elevated high-sensitivity cardiac troponin, or histopathological findings, but who remain asymptomatic. - Stage C (symptomatic): Patients presenting with symptoms attributable to myocarditis, such as heart failure, arrhythmias, or chest pain, along with histopathological evidence of myocarditis, cardiac MRI findings based on the 2018 updated Lake Louise criteria, or elevated high-sensitivity cardiac troponin, supported by additional evidence. - Stage D (advanced): Patients who meet the criteria for Stage C myocarditis and exhibit hemodynamic instability or severe arrhythmias requiring interventions such as mechanical circulatory support or evaluation for heart transplantation. ## Prognosis Given the wide variability in clinical presentation, disease severity, and underlying etiology, the prognosis of acute myocarditis is equally heterogeneous. Adverse cardiovascular outcomes are more likely in patients presenting with acute decompensated heart failure, sustained arrhythmias, a LVEF below 50%, or those requiring inotropes, vasopressors, or mechanical circulatory support. Nonetheless, patients who survive the acute phase often have favorable outcomes.[23] Long-term follow-up indicates that at least 50% of patients develop cardiomyopathy. The 1-year mortality rate for acute myocarditis is approximately 20%, increasing to 56% by 4 years. Please see StatPearls' companion resource, "[Viral Myocarditis](https://www.statpearls.com/point-of-care/25470)," for more information. Fulminant myocarditis is associated with significantly higher mortality rates and reduced transplant-free survival.[24] Persistent detection of viral genomes on serial EMBs is a poor prognostic indicator and may signal a diminished response to therapy.[25] The prognosis is also particularly unfavorable in cases of eosinophilic and giant cell myocarditis. Biomarkers can also provide prognostic insights—the presence of soluble Fas ligand at presentation suggests more favorable outcomes, whereas