unjustified prolonged use of antibiotics [20]. ## Differential Diagnosis Given the nonspecific signs of neonatal sepsis, several differentials must be considered, including but not limited to: - Infection due to other agents (virus, fungal or parasite) - Congenital heart disease - Neonatal encephalopathy - Metabolic disease - Prematurity and associated complications (respiratory distress syndrome, intraventricular hemorrhage, apnea of prematurity, and others) - Hypo or hyperthyroidism - Transient tachypnea of the newborn - Meconium aspiration - Hypoglycemia ## Treatment Planning The treatment regimen for neonatal sepsis varies based on various risk factors and conditions. The typical antibiotics used are discussed above. The duration of therapy can vary based on the isolated organisms, the type of infection, and the presence of any neonatal complications. Neonates with positive blood cultures typically respond to treatment within 24 to 48 hours, and repeat cultures and studies are usually negative by 72 hours [3]. Persistent positive blood cultures should alert the clinicians to a seeding focus that should be managed (central venous access, cardiac vegetations, abscesses, or osteomyelitis). Many providers would continue intervenous therapy for 7 to 14 days based on the organism or longer if meningitis was suspected [18]. Increasing the duration of antibiotics may be necessary for some situations. Increasing the incidence of antibiotic resistance necrotizing enterocolitis or death are 2 crucial principles that should motivate clinicians to tailor antimicrobial therapy if clinically indicated[21]. The treatment for suspect EOS with negative cultures is also variable. Cultures can be negative for various reasons, including maternal antibiotic use, initiation of antibiotics before obtaining cultures, or false-negative tests. Determining adequate antibiotic therapy without any positive cultures can make determining the duration of therapy difficult. Most neonates with highly suspected clinical sepsis with negative culture receive 7-10 days of antimicrobial therapy [3]. ## Prognosis Mortality rates are inversely proportional to gestational age, such that preterm or younger neonates have higher mortality rates than term neonates [22]. _E. coli_ has also been found to be associated with a higher mortality rate when compared with GBS. As noted above, the introduction of GBS intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis has decreased mortality rates caused by GBS. The treatment of clinically suspected neonates with negative cultures has also significantly decreased mortality rates. Preterm infants with sepsis may develop impaired neurodevelopment. Also, others may have vision impairment. Those infants pretreated with aminoglycosides may also develop ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity. ## Complications Neonatal sepsis remains a significant