contributor to morbidity and mortality in neonates. Prematurity and delayed treatment are commonly associated with adverse outcomes. VLBW infants have been found to have a higher risk of chronic lung disease, and extremely low birth weight infants are at a greater risk of neurodevelopmental risks, such as hearing and visual deficits, cerebral palsy, and impaired psychomotor and mental development [23]. On the other hand, the unnecessary overuse of antibiotics can increase the chances of severe candidiasis and multi-drug resistant organisms. ## Consultations Pediatricians or neonatologists can adequately manage neonatal sepsis. However, the following subspecialties and ancillary services can provide essential support in complicated cases: - Pediatric surgery: to manage associated surgical complications (gastrointestinal perforation, abscess, necrotizing fasciitis, omphalitis, and others) - Pediatric infectious disease specialist if the infant is not responding to antibiotics or if there is concern regarding adequate antimicrobial coverage - Pediatric pharmacists can provide meaningful input and recommendations about monitoring trough levels to avoid toxic antibiotic levels ## Deterrence and Patient Education Educating the neonate's family about the disease process and keeping them updated throughout the treatment process is an integral part of management. Neonatal sepsis is often an unexpected and scary situation for parents and caregivers. Doctors should be mindful of this and ensure that parents are informed of the tests that must be performed, the importance of each test, and the results. Any antibiotic or treatment plan changes must be communicated to the parents.Upon hospital discharge, caregivers of all infants, including healthy newborns, should be educated to watch for signs of illness or sepsis. These may include fever, jaundice, increased lethargy, decreased feeding habits, difficulty or increased breathing, and cyanosis of the fingertips and toes. Caregivers should be informed to call their doctors if their neonate experiences any of these symptoms, as they could indicate LOS. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Neonatal sepsis is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in neonates. Attempts to prevent sepsis's development or progression have driven many quality improvement projects in newborn nurseries and NICUs.Managing such infants is complex and requires a multidisciplinary care approach, including clinicians, pharmacies, lactation consultants, and social workers supported by medical decisions made during family-based care rounds. Obstetric physicians are important in ensuring that GBS screening and all other prenatal screening for infections are performed and adequately treated before and during delivery. Nursery nurses are also important in preventing and managing neonatal sepsis as