function of polymorphonuclear neutrophils, macrophages, and T lymphocytes makes these cells incapable of carrying out a complete inflammatory response in neonates. Furthermore, neonates have limited immunoglobulins at birth and cannot generate a quantitative and/or qualitative adequate mounting response against infectious agents. The insufficient time that premature has in the uterus decreases the transfer of immune globulins to the fetus. This deficiency in immunoglobulins puts premature infants at much higher risk for sepsis when compared to term infants [9]. ## History and Physical Signs and symptoms of neonatal sepsis can range from nonspecific or vague symptoms to hemodynamic collapse. Early symptoms may include irritability, lethargy, or poor feeding. Others may quickly develop respiratory distress, fever, hypothermia, or hypotension with poor perfusion and shock. Sometimes, the diagnosis may only be suspected based on laboratory findings, which may reveal hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia, acidosis, or hyperbilirubinemia. A high index of suspicion is, therefore, necessary for timely diagnosis. Therefore, physicians must be aware of any factors that may increase an infant’s risk of developing sepsis. Prematurity and very low birth weights are also important risk factors to consider. Maternal factors that put neonates at risk of EOS include GBS status, the presence of chorioamnionitis, infant prematurity, or prolonged rupture of membranes [3]. Consider whether the patient has indwelling foreign bodies such as a central venous catheter or endotracheal tube for late-onset infection, depends on parenteral nutrition, or receives proton-pump inhibitor or histamine-2 blocking therapy. ## Evaluation Neonates with bacteremia can be asymptomatic and have a normal physical examination. Thus, laboratory testing plays an important role in diagnosis. In a neonate with suspected sepsis, a blood culture should be immediately drawn. It is recommended to draw at least 1 ml of blood as low-level bacteremia may not be detected with smaller aliquotes [10]. Cultures should also be drawn from the catheter site if 1 is in place. Urine cultures are usually not recommended for evaluating EOS but should be considered for evaluating LOS [11]. Lumbar puncture with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis and culture should be evaluated in any infant with positive blood culture or if the neonate has a clinical presentation that suggests central nervous system involvement. Lumbar puncture should be repeated within 48 hours of therapy to confirm sterility of the CSF. New technology using polymerase chain reaction is currently being studied as a diagnostic tool to identify sepsis and the causative organism faster than