this is often associated with greater risk of complications including cardiovascular (hypotension requiring the use of vasopressors, cardiac arrhythmias), gastrointestinal (liver dysfunction, ileus, gastric ulcers), infectious (pneumonia, urinary tract infection), hematological (anemia, thrombocytopenia, pulmonary embolism), electrolyte abnormalities (hypo or hypernatremia, hypophosphatemia, severe acidosis), and worse outcomes. The severity and risk of complications have been associated with a prolonged RSE duration and the need for multiple IV anesthetic agents.[11] ## Consultations The following personnel should be consulted: - Neurologist - Anesthesiologist - Intensivist ## Deterrence and Patient Education NORSE is a distinct clinical disorder with significant mortality and long-term morbidity. Existing evidence regarding the etiology, diagnostic workup, and treatment options is based on expert opinion and retrospective case series. Support should be offered to family members to provide education regarding possible neurological sequelae among NORSE survivors, including refractory epilepsy, functional and cognitive impairments. General awareness about the nature of the disease and treatment options available should be promoted amongst medical professionals by organizing meetings at both the institutional and national levels. NORSE is not a well recognized clinical entity amongst general neurologists or medical intensive care physicians, except in specialized tertiary level academic health institutions. Hence, improving professional education will result in early recognition and management of the disease, improving patient outcomes. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes NORSE is relatively an uncommon clinical entity with no clear etiology in the majority of the cases. It is associated with significant mortality and long-term neurological sequelae, requiring a multidisciplinary approach for management. Although no prospective long-term studies are comparing the efficacy of different treatment options in NORSE, physicians should recognize such patients and initiate treatment early during the disease course to improve patient outcomes. Physicians and other health care team members, including nurses and pharmacists, should focus on the early institution of treatment, including the use of aggressive immunotherapies to reduce morbidity and mortality. Clear communication with an emphasis on discussing the uncertain nature of the diagnosis, treatment options available, and possible outcomes; should be maintained with the patient’s family throughout the course of the disease. Palliative care services can be consulted early during the hospital course to offer support to the family members and facilitate care discussion goals should the need arise. They can play an essential role in building a strong relationship between the patient’s family and the health care teams. Physicians should encourage families to participate in the national registry