90% for detecting malignancy when present in patients with bronchogenic carcinomas.[23] Superior vena cava syndrome with dilated neck veins, edema of the face, neck, and upper extremities, and a plethoric appearance is a common feature of small cell lung cancer. It might be the primary presentation of the disease. The chest radiograph will show widening of the mediastinum or a right hilar mass.[24] As stated above, lung cancers in the superior sulcus present as Pancoast syndrome. This presents as shoulder pain, Horner syndrome, and evidence of bony destruction, with atrophy of hand muscles. Metastasis from lung cancer to bone is frequently symptomatic, and patients may present with bone pain at the site of metastasis in the setting of elevated serum alkaline phosphatase and hypercalcemia. Up to 20% of the patients with non-small cell lung cancer may have bone pain secondary to metastasis on initial presentation;[25] whereas the percentage is as high as 30 to 40% in patients with small-cell lung cancer.[26] Imaging usually reveals osteolytic lesions with vertebral bodies as the most common site of metastasis. Adrenal metastases also occur in lung cancer, but they are rarely symptomatic and are usually seen on staging. However, not all adrenal lesions are malignant lesions, and positron emission tomography (PET) scanning is recommended to differentiate benign from malignant adrenal lesions.[27] Brain metastasis is another common feature of lung cancer in small cell lung cancers (SCLC) and non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLC). In SCLC, brain metastases may be present in as high as 20 to 30% of the patients at diagnosis.[28] Other common sites of metastases in lung cancer include the liver, which is usually only symptomatic in advanced disease. **Paraneoplastic Syndromes Associated with Lung Cancer** Symptomatic hypercalcemia secondary to lung cancer may be due to secretion of the parathyroid hormone-related protein or due to extensive bony metastases. They present with anorexia, nausea, constipation, and lethargy as typical symptoms of hypercalcemia and have an overall poor prognosis as they tend to be associated with advanced disease.[29] The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) is associated with SCLC and presents with symptoms of hyponatremia. Neurologic paraneoplastic syndromes are immune-mediated syndromes associated with SCLC and include Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS), encephalomyelitis, limbic encephalitis, cerebellar ataxia, sensory neuropathy, and autonomic neuropathy.[30] Ectopic adrenal corticotropin production can cause Cushing syndrome and is associated with SCLC, large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma, and carcinoid tumors of the lung, and it