a heart rate of at least 85 percent of the age-predicted maximum heart rate. Atropine at a dose of 0.5 mg at each time to a total dose of 2 mg can be administered as needed to achieve the desired heart rate. The procedure should be terminated if there is any significant arrhythmia, hypotension less than 90 mmHg, or severe hypertension. Regadenoson is becoming increasingly popular and is the primary vasodilator used because of its ease of use and better tolerability. The most commonly used radioisotope for SPECT imaging is 99m-technetium labeled perfusion agents such as 99m-Tc-sestamibi, 99m-Tc-tetrofosmin. The use of thallium-201 is becoming increasingly less common as Tc99 has higher energy, less attenuation, and less scatter of photons. - Single isotope protocol is done with Tc99m and can be done as a one-day or two-day protocol. - One-day rest/stress (or stress/rest) study: Radiopharmaceutical agent used for the second injection is generally three times higher than the first dose. Images acquisition is performed 15 to 60 minutes after the injection, or it can be delayed up to 2 hours depending on the type of stress – exercise vs. pharmacological. Radiation exposure can be reduced substantially by using a weight-based radiopharmaceutical agent and a newer solid-state camera system. - Two-day Tc99m- based protocol: radiopharmaceutical agent is used at the same dosage for rest and stress images. This protocol is more useful in larger patients since low-dose tracer may make image acquisition difficult. But it is cumbersome for patients to perform this entire stress/rest in 2 days. - Stress only: This is a newly developing model based on the theory that the resting images may not be required in patients whose stress images are normal. This allows for lesser radiation exposure and shorter study time. But should be careful in-patient selection, and patients with no prior abnormal rMPI images, no history of CAD or MI without revascularization or cardiomyopathy, and weight more than 300 lbs should be selected. Diagnostic value is higher in patients who undergo ECG-gated technetium-99m sestamibi SPECT rMPI with attenuation correction. However, if the stress images are abnormal, the patient should undergo rest images the following day with a higher radiopharmaceutical dose. Stress-only using T99m usually causes approximately 3 millisieverts radiation exposure. - Dual isotope: This protocol is based on using two different isotopes at rest and stress. TI-201 is used at rest and images acquired within 10 minutes,