followed by a Tc99m-based agent during stress image acquisition. The advantage of this protocol is the almost immediate acquisition of rest images, but the major disadvantage is, it is associated with higher radiation exposure, difficulty interpreting the data because of different resolutions at rest, and stress. Dual isotope usually causes approximately 22 millisieverts radiation exposure. - TI-201: This is less commonly utilized because of higher radiation exposure. Stress image acquisition should be done within 10 minutes of TI-201 injection. Unlike the Tc99m based protocol, stress injection should be performed first. If the patient has difficulty breathing with exercise, image acquisition is delayed to avoid myocardial creep – an artifact from the upward movement of the diaphragm. If the patient can achieve stage III or higher Bruce protocol, image acquisition should be delayed up to 15 minutes post-stress, and the respiratory rate should be less than 25 cycles per minute. PET imaging utilizes rubidium-82 and 13-N ammonia tracers. Rubidium-83 is widely used because it does not require on-site cyclotrons, unlike 13-N ammonia, but it requires a rapid delivery system because its half-life is 75 seconds. PET imaging is different from SPECT because it requires additional external radiation sources for image acquisition and image acquisition after tracer administration. Both images are then used for attenuation correction. Rubidium-81 causes approximately 3 millisieverts radiation exposure, while N-13 ammonia causes 2 millisieverts radiation exposure. ## Complications Major complications usually do not occur with stress testing. Some of the side effects associated with pharmacological agents are described here. Adenosine might cause wheezing, chest pain with possible ST-segment changes, hypotension. Symptoms rapidly resolve because of the short half-life, with rarely requiring aminophylline to reverse the effects. More common minor side effects are nausea, flushing, dyspnea, and headache. Serious adverse events with dipyridamole, such as nonfatal myocardial infarction, cardiac death rate, sustained ventricular tachycardia, have been reported, albeit rare. And some minor side effects such as chest pain, headache, and dizziness may occur. Symptoms are completely reversible after the administration of aminophylline. Side effects of regadenoson and dobutamine are as mentioned above. ## Patient Safety and Education Patient education prior to the stress test is important. The most common side effects are headache and flushed feeling. Procedures can occur over a day or two. Following instructions should be given prior to the procedure: - Patients should avoid caffeinated drinks at least 12 hours before the test. - They