especially when revascularization is being considered. Pharmacologic stress testing with myocardial perfusion imaging is indicated when exercise stress testing cannot be performed due to an abnormal EKG or the patient's inability to exercise. Scenarios in which a nuclear stress test may be used for evaluation include: - Patients with suspected coronary artery disease - Typically, patients who have chest pain suggestive of angina and intermediate to a high probability of acute coronary syndrome (ACS). However, it should not be performed in patients with ongoing or unstable conditions prior to the relief of symptoms. - Patients with prior history of CAD with new or worsening symptoms - Patients who have new-onset left bundle branch block (LBBB) or ventricular pacing in the EKG - Patients with a recent ACS who were treated conservatively or partially revascularized within the past 3 months for evaluation of risk assessment - Patients with a prior history of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) of more than 5 years or percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) of more than 2 years and are asymptomatic, one-time testing cardiac stress testing is appropriate. - Patients with dyspnea and suspected cardiac origin - Patients with newly diagnosed congestive heart failure to evaluate reversible causes such as CAD ## Normal and Critical Findings There are primarily two modalities of stress – exercise or pharmacological. In patients who can exercise, it is the preferred form of stress to achieve cardiac workload. It can also measure several factors such as symptoms, hemodynamic response, physical activity, and prognosis of cardiac activity. The radioactive tracer is injected near the peak of physical activity, and it should be continued for at least a minute of exercise to allow the radioactive tracer to distribute. Depending on the SPECT radioactive tracer, image acquisition may begin immediately or can be delayed up to a few hours. Due to the short half-life of PET tracer, pharmacological stress is preferred in these patients. In patients who are unable to exercise or achieve an adequate heart rate response, there are several pharmacological agents to achieve cardiac stress. Broadly speaking, there are two types, vasodilator or inotropic/chronotropic drugs. Examples of vasodilators are adenosine, dipyridamole, and regadenoson. They primarily cause coronary vasodilation and increase coronary blood flow during stress, which is 3 to 5 times the resting blood flow. The flow through the normal coronary arteries increases up to fourfold during coronary vasodilation and radiotracer uptake.[6] Flow-limiting