stenosis in the coronary artery causes a relative reduction in blood flow during stress leading to reduced radiotracer uptake, reflecting as a perfusion defect. 1. Adenosine acts via the A2A receptor on coronary arteries.[7] Its effect on other receptors such It has a very short half-life, especially red blood cells, and endothelial cells have rapid uptake. It is administered via infusion pump at the dose of 140 mcg/kg/minute, typically over six minutes, then radionuclide is injected over 10 seconds, and adenosine infusion is continued for additional 3 minutes.[8] A shorter duration protocol of 4 minutes has been studied and has shown equally effective results. Simultaneous low-level exercise is safe, well-tolerated, and provides improved image quality. 1. Dipyridamole blocks the cellular uptake of adenosine. Its half-life is 30 to 35 minutes, metabolized primarily by the liver, and excreted in small amounts by urine. It is administered via an infusion pump at the dose of 140 mcg/kg per minute for 4 minutes with a maximum dose of 0.56 mg/kg. The radionuclide is administered 3 to 5 minutes after the infusion. Aminophylline is often used as a reversal agent to reduce side effects. Simultaneous low-level exercise improves image quality, allows us to assess exercise capacity, and risk-stratify future cardiac events. 1. Regadenoson is a selective A2A receptor blocker on vascular smooth muscles. Adenosine and dipyridamole act on the A2A receptor and the A1 receptor on the atrioventricular node and A2B, A3, A4, responsible for common side effects such as AV block and bronchospasm, respectively. Regadenoson has a rapid onset of 30 seconds and lasts about 2 to 5 minutes and an intermediate phase of 30 minutes in contrast to adenosine, which has a half-life of 5 seconds. Reagadesone allows for more convenient administration and monitoring. It is administered at a dose of 400 mcg in a prefilled single-dose syringe over 10 seconds, followed immediately by a 5 ml saline flush.[9] The radionuclide is administered after the saline flush. Regadenoson has an added advantage over adenosine and dipyridamole as it can be given to patients who begin with exercise SPECT MPI but are unable to achieve the cardiac workload. Examples of inotropic/chronotropic agents are dobutamine with or without atropine. 1. Dobutamine is administered over graded format starting at 5 mcg/kg and gradually increasing it to 10, 20, 30, and 40 mcg/kg/minute at every 3-minute interval.[10] The standard end-point of dobutamine rMPI is to achieve