by negative collapsing pressure during inspiration; however, progressive expiratory narrowing in the retropalatal area also has a significant role.[24] The magnitude of upper airway narrowing during sleep is often related to body mass index (BMI), indicating that both anatomical and neuromuscular factors contribute to airway obstruction.[25] The pressure-flow relationship through collapsible tubes is key to understanding the mechanisms of OSA.[26] Additional information on risk factors is available in the Etiology section. ## History and Physical Patients with suspected OSA usually present with excessive daytime sleepiness, loud snoring, gasping, choking, or witnessed episodes of breathing cessation during sleep. Excessive daytime sleepiness is one of the most common symptoms.[22] Many patients may only report daytime fatigue, with or without other associated symptoms. Therefore, it is important to objectively assess the distinction between sleepiness and fatigue. The Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) can be used to quantitatively evaluate the severity of sleepiness.[27] The ESS score ranges from 0 to 24; a score above 9 suggests excessive daytime sleepiness and warrants additional assessment. The Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS) can also be used to assess the severity of fatigue symptoms.[28] The ESS and FSS are helpful tools, as sleepiness and fatigue symptoms may occur concurrently. Other symptoms may include morning headaches, nocturnal reflux, insomnia, and nocturia.[29][30][31] Symptoms of sleep-onset and sleep-maintenance insomnia are more commonly reported by women.[32] The STOP-BANG questionnaire is one of the most widely accepted screening tools for OSA.[33] - Snoring: Do you snore loudly (louder than talking or loud enough to be heard through closed doors)? - Tired: Do you often feel tired, fatigued, or sleepy during the daytime? - Observed: Has anyone observed you stop breathing during your sleep? - Blood pressure: Are you currently being treated for high blood pressure? - BMI: Is your BMI greater than 35 kg/m2? - Age: Are you of age 50 or older? - Neck circumference: Is your neck circumference greater than 40 cm? - Sex: Are you male? The STOP-BANG questionnaire can be used to assess the probability of moderate-to-severe OSA. A high risk is indicated if "YES" is selected for 5 or more items, while a low risk is indicated if "YES" is answered for fewer than 3 items. Obesity is the most common finding in individuals with OSA. Other physical signs include a large neck circumference (17 inches or 43 cm in males and 16 inches or 40.5 cm in females), a