signals (see **Image.** Polysomnography Showing Central and Obstructive Sleep Apneas). - Obstructive sleep apnea: If an increased effort is present throughout the entire apnea. - Central sleep apnea: If no effort is detected throughout the entire apnea. Mixed apnea is characterized by an absence of effort during the initial portion of the event, followed by the resumption of effort in the latter part of the apnea. Home sleep tests or portable monitoring have gained popularity due to their accessibility and lower cost. However, portable monitoring should be conducted following specific rules and procedures as outlined by the AASM Unattended Portable Monitoring Task Force guidelines.[40] These guidelines include the following criteria: - At a minimum, the portable monitoring device must record airflow, respiratory effort, and blood oxygenation. - The airflow, effort, and oximetric biosensors traditionally used in in-laboratory PSG should also be utilized in portable monitoring. - Portable monitoring testing must be conducted under the oversight of an AASM-accredited comprehensive sleep medicine program, with established written policies and procedures. - An experienced sleep technologist or technician must apply the sensors or provide direct patient education on proper sensor application. - The portable monitoring device must display raw data and allow a trained sleep technologist or technician to manually score or edit automated scoring. - A board-certified sleep specialist, or an individual meeting the eligibility criteria for the sleep medicine certification examination, must review the raw data from portable monitoring using scoring criteria that align with current AASM standards.[39] Under these specified conditions, portable monitoring may be used for unattended studies in the patient's home. - A follow-up visit should be scheduled to review test results for all patients undergoing portable monitoring. - Patients with a high pretest probability of moderate-to-severe OSA who receive negative or technically inadequate portable monitoring results should undergo in-laboratory PSG. Unattended portable monitoring and home sleep tests are suitable for adults with a high pretest probability of sleep apnea and no significant medical comorbidities, such as advanced congestive heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or neurological disorders. These are level 3 sleep tests, which include pulse oximetry, heart rate monitoring, temperature and pressure sensors to detect nasal and oral airflow, resistance belts around the chest and abdomen to detect motion, and a sensor to monitor body position. Moderate and severe sleep apnea can be detected using these tests. However, due to the potential underestimation of the apnea-hypopnea