10 minutes. The goal of naloxone administration is to restore adequate breathing and ensure a stable airway. Higher doses are required for patients who overdosed on diphenoxylate, methadone, butorphanol, nalbuphine, or pentazocine. A naloxone infusion can be started in patients who need repeated doses to maintain respiration. Nalmefene is a new agent on the market that can reverse opiate toxicity. This drug has a half-life of 4 to 8 hours. However, routine use of this longer-acting opiate antagonist is not recommended due to concerns about precipitating a prolonged period of opiate withdrawal. **Starting dose of naloxone** The usual starting dose of naloxone for adults ranges from 0.4 to 1 mg. Meanwhile, the starting dose for children is 0.1 mg/kg. The goal of naloxone administration is to reverse respiratory depression, not to "wake up" the individual. Naloxone should be administered slowly in suspected chronic opiate users, with doses of 0.04 to 0.4 mg given intravenously every 1 to 3 minutes. This approach ensures a more controlled reversal of opiate effects and reduces the risk of precipitating withdrawal symptoms.[32] Rapid administration of naloxone in these patients can trigger withdrawal, which is distressing for the patient and potentially places healthcare workers at risk of injury. Before naloxone administration, the patient should receive 100% fraction of inspired oxygen assisted by bag-valve ventilation until they become more alert and cooperative or until naloxone is administered. The onset of naloxone’s action is immediate, with peak response occurring within 3 to 8 minutes. A repeat dose may be indicated if the patient continues to show signs of opiate toxicity. Starting with a low dose of naloxone is important, typically 0.05 to 0.1 mg intravenously, gradually titrating upward to minimize the risk of withdrawal symptoms, such as nausea, vomiting, agitation, pain, and aspiration. This careful dosing is especially crucial in patients suspected of ingesting opiates combined with other CNS depressants such as alcohol, tricyclic antidepressants, and benzodiazepines. Peripheral intravenous access may be difficult in some patients with opiate overdose and long-term OUD. In such cases, 2 mg of naloxone may be administered intramuscularly or intranasally. Even with this route, opiate toxicity is reversed within 5 to 10 minutes. The half-life of naloxone is about 30 to 45 minutes, with a duration of action ranging from 90 to 180 minutes. These variations depend on the route of administration and dose. Patients should be monitored for any recurrence of opioid