or nearly 20 million people, regularly use heroin or opium. The highest usage rates are found in Southwest Asia (1.21%), followed by Southeastern and Eastern Europe (0.83%), and Transcaucasia and Central Asia (0.81%). In Europe, opioid-related deaths have been primarily linked to the illicit use of fentanyl and its analogs. In countries experiencing a heroin shortage, fentanyl and related products have replaced heroin as the illicit drug of choice. In Russia and Ukraine, desomorphine, known as "krokodil" on the street, is inexpensive and easy to produce from codeine. Besides being 10 times more potent than morphine, the unrefined synthesis methods cause skin abscesses, necrosis, and other life- and limb-threatening complications for users.[14] ## Pathophysiology Opioids exert their clinical effects by interacting with the opioid receptor, which has 3 subtypes: μ, κ, and δ. These receptors are all G-protein-linked and are found throughout the human body. Each subtype produces different clinical manifestations when activated.[15] μ-receptors mediate analgesia, euphoria, sedation, respiratory depression, gastrointestinal dysmotility, and physical dependence. These receptors reduce the medullary response to hypercarbia and decrease the respiratory response to hypoxia, leading to a diminished stimulus to breathe and the development of apnea. μ-receptors are concentrated in the brain, where they regulate analgesia; in the mesolimbic system, which is responsible for euphoria and reward; and in the medulla, which regulates respiration. κ-receptors mediate analgesia, diuresis, miosis, and dysphoria primarily within the spinal cord. Stimulation of this receptor subtype is not associated with constipation or significant changes in respiration. μ-receptor-specific antagonists do not reverse analgesia provided by κ-receptor stimulation.[16] δ-receptors mediate analgesia, inhibit dopamine release, and suppress cough. Less is known about the stimulation of this receptor, but it is believed to play a smaller role in behavior reinforcement. Opioids may be agonists, partial agonists, or agonist-antagonists of opioid receptors, which are located in the brain, spinal cord, and gastrointestinal tract. In overdose, excessive stimulation of the μ-opioid receptors in the brain that regulate respiratory rate leads to respiratory depression and, ultimately, death by respiratory arrest. The typical symptoms of overdose include pinpoint pupils, respiratory depression, and a decreased level of consciousness, which, together, form the “opioid overdose triad.” The roles of the σ- and δ-opioid receptors are less well understood. However, hallucinations, dysphoria, and psychosis may develop when σ-receptors are stimulated. Stimulation of δ-receptors can produce analgesia, euphoria, and seizures. σ-receptors are no longer considered opioids because they are not antagonized