rates of transition are low, toxicity often occurs when individuals move from the nonmedical use of prescription opioids to heroin. Opioid overdose occurs when excessive unopposed stimulation of the opiate pathway leads to decreased respiratory effort and, potentially, death. The frequency of opioid overdoses is rapidly increasing. Drug overdose is now the leading cause of accidental death in the United States, with opioids being the most common culprit. According to the CDC, more than 1,000 emergency department visits reported daily are related to opioid misuse, and about 91 opioid overdose deaths are documented every day. Heroin, priced at about $2 per bag, is up to 10 times cheaper and more readily available than prescription opioid medications purchased on the street, which average around a dollar per milligram. Additionally, heroin is increasingly being mixed with fentanyl and other synthetic opioid compounds, resulting in variable opioid potency and a higher risk of overdose. Nonpharmaceutical or "street" opioids are often contaminated with other substances. To increase profits, sellers frequently add additional agents to the formula without informing the end user. These additives are pharmacologically active in many cases. Heroin was adulterated with scopolamine 2 decades ago in New York City, causing severe anticholinergic toxicity. Cocaine adulteration is also prevalent.[4][5][6][7] **Prescription Monitoring** Most states have established prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs) to counter the liberal prescribing of opiates by healthcare workers. In many states, healthcare professionals must consult the state’s online drug database to determine which analgesic drugs may be prescribed to patients. Such state-enacted legislation aims to prevent mass opiate prescriptions by healthcare workers and to help stop the diversion of legitimate opiate prescriptions. (DEA, 2016) Results are mixed, but research suggests that opioid databases have reduced opioid prescribing.[8] Additionally, with the assistance of the DEA, statewide registries of controlled substances now help healthcare providers track usage patterns among patients to identify people at high risk for opiate diversion or abuse. While the availability of opiates contributes to opioid addiction, no evidence has yet demonstrated a direct link between opiate abuse and the legitimate use of these drugs for pain. ([DEA](https://www.deadiversion.usdoj.gov/faq/rx_monitor.htm), 2016) ## Etiology Both opioids and opiates act on 3 major classes of opioid receptors: μ, κ, δ, and several minor classes, such as nociceptin and ζ. Simply put, μ-receptors are thought to provide analgesia, respiratory suppression, bradycardia, physical dependence, gastrointestinal dysmotility, and euphoria. Agonism of κ-receptors can lead to hallucinations, miosis,