U.S. Department of Health and Human Services acknowledged the expanded use of naloxone among healthcare professionals to counter opiate overdoses nationwide. Now, pharmacists, EMS personnel, and physicians can all play an active role in preventing opiate overdoses. Current recommendations also suggest coprescribing naloxone to patients taking opiates. Several studies show that patients who receive naloxone alongside an opiate prescription have fewer opiate-related emergency room visits than those who do not. Today, some healthcare workers have started prescribing naloxone to patients on high doses of opiates. Recently, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the use of a handheld autoinjector that can be prescribed to caregivers or family members for managing suspected opiate overdoses. Additionally, numerous naloxone organizations have emerged across the country to fight the opiate overdose epidemic, including efforts to involve nonmedical professionals like law enforcement officers. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes With the drastic increase in opioid abuse and overdose-related deaths, much attention has focused on this so-called "opioid epidemic." All healthcare workers, including nurse practitioners who prescribe controlled substances, have a role in reducing the opioid epidemic and should be equipped to identify and treat those experiencing toxicity and overdose. New research focuses on finding effective interventions and identifying risk factors for overdose. Some of these efforts include treatment programs, take-home intranasal naloxone, and monitored injection facilities. A review of research exploring overdose education and naloxone distribution suggests reduced fatality rates for patients who receive counseling and prescriptions for home naloxone. Naloxone has been shown to have a very safe side effect profile. Several studies on opiate-naive patients who received large doses of the drug showed no significant effects. However, acute opioid withdrawal symptoms may develop when this agent is administered to opioid-tolerant patients. Individuals given naloxone in the setting of opioid overdose may experience sudden withdrawal syndrome, manifesting as aggression, agitation, restlessness, diaphoresis, and tachycardia. Gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea and vomiting also occur in about 30% of patients. Most symptoms are not severe or sustained, and less than 1% of patients require admission. Acute withdrawal symptoms are more likely with larger doses of naloxone. Despite the risk of precipitated withdrawal, naloxone should not be withheld in cases of acute opioid overdose with respiratory depression.[43][44] An interprofessional approach should involve physicians, nurses, and substance abuse counselors. The goal of the collaborative efforts of this group is to reduce morbidity and mortality associated with OUD. ## Review