found to be functional in greater than 90% of patients who underwent detorsion. This was assessed by the appearance of the adnexa on ultrasound, including follicular development on the ovaries.[11] Therefore, surgery with adnexal sparing is the management of choice. Rarely, if the ovary appears necrotic and gelatinous beyond possible salvage, the surgeon may choose to perform a salpingo-oophorectomy. The surgeon may also perform cystectomy if a benign cyst is present. If the cyst appears to be malignant, or if the woman is post-menopausal, salpingo-oophorectomy is the preferred management. ## Differential Diagnosis There are many differentials for abdominal pain in a female. In a patient of childbearing age, ectopic pregnancy must first be ruled out with a beta hCG. If the beta hCG is negative, then this can essentially be ruled out. If positive, then an intrauterine pregnancy on ultrasound dramatically decreases the risk of ectopic but does not rule out heterotopic pregnancy. A ruptured ovarian cyst can also present like an ovarian torsion. Both may also have free fluid in the pelvis on ultrasound. However, cyst rupture typically causes sudden onset of sharp pain, which commonly occurs during sexual intercourse. A tubo-ovarian abscess may present with lower pelvic pain, which is usually more gradual in onset and associated with fever. Appendicitis can present with right-sided pelvic pain, nausea, vomiting, and fever. Lab values may show leukocytosis, and CT imaging should aid in differentiating it from ovarian pathology.[12] Other differentials include pyelonephritis, diverticulitis, and pelvic inflammatory disease. ## Prognosis Ovarian torsion is not usually life-threatening, but it is organ threatening. In premenopausal women, surgery with adnexal sparring is now the preferred treatment, and the majority of women had normal-appearing adnexa on ultrasound after surgery.[13] Ovarian salvage is increased in patients with less time from the onset of symptoms to surgical intervention. In postmenopausal women, salpingo-oophorectomy is done to prevent reoccurrence. This approach is also used in women with a mass suspicious for malignancy. The majority of ovarian masses are benign. Some case reports show less than 2% of torsions involving a malignant lesion. However, the chances of a malignant lesion involved in torsion are increased in the postmenopausal group.[1] ## Complications The main complication of ovarian torsion is the inability to salvage the ovary and the need for salpingo-oophorectomy. This may affect fertility in a woman of childbearing age. Other complications of torsion include abnormal pelvic anatomy that may contribute