to infertility, such as adhesions, or atrophied ovaries.[14] There may be complications from the surgery itself, such as infection or venous thromboembolism. The risk of post-operative infection is increased when necrotic tissue is already present.[15] ## Consultations The most important and time-sensitive consultation will be to a gynecologist and should occur before confirmatory studies if clinical suspicion is high. The more time the ovary is without blood flow, the lower likelihood of salvaging function of the organ. ## Deterrence and Patient Education The most important thing for patients to keep in mind is seeking care immediately to allow for timely diagnosis and management. This is especially important if patients have a known risk factor for ovarian torsion such as a known cyst, are pregnant, or trying to become pregnant with fertility treatments. ## Pearls and Other Issues Ovarian torsion is a difficult diagnosis due to vague symptoms and nonspecific labs and imaging. It is important to keep this diagnosis in the differential and maintain clinical suspicion for torsion when another pathology has been ruled out. The dual blood supply to the ovary can also be deceiving, so the presence of blood supply on ultrasound does not rule out a torsion when clinical suspicion is high. Ultrasound also cannot rule out torsion due to the possibility that the patient can have intermittent torsion. Remember that gynecologic consultation may be necessary, and direct visualization by surgical evaluation is the only way to make a definitive diagnosis. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes The diagnosis and management of ovarian torsion are complex and involve many different healthcare professionals. A female presenting with non-specific symptoms of abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting may represent a gynecological, obstetrical, gastrointestinal, or genitourinary process. Nursing plays a vital role in getting accurate vitals, drawing labs, and giving medications to help the patient feel better. The emergency room provider needs to take an accurate history, do a good physical exam, and order the appropriate tests. They also need to coordinate care with the interprofessional team. It is also very important for the ultrasound technician to get good images to send to the radiologist. The radiologist is also necessary to read both ultrasound and CT findings to evaluate for intraabdominal and pelvic processes. Consultation with a gynecologist will also be necessary to take the patient to surgery. In the postoperative period, nurses will play an important role in pain management, patient