not at all. Up to one-third of patients were found to have no abdominal tenderness. There could also be an abdominal mass. If the patient has guarding, rigidity, or rebound, there may already be necrosis of the ovary. Every patient should also have a pelvic exam to better evaluate for masses, discharge, and cervical motion tenderness. ## Evaluation Laboratory testing should include a complete blood count, complete metabolic panel, and a serum hCG. CBC may show a leukocytosis, or anemia if the torsion is causing hemorrhage. Hcg is especially important since pregnancy is a risk factor for torsion. These laboratory abnormalities are non-specific, and most often, the lab values will be normal in torsion. The imaging study of choice is ultrasound with doppler. Both a transvaginal and pelvic ultrasound should be done. The sensitivity of ultrasound for ovarian torsion is dependent on many factors, including technician skill and patient anatomy, but is reported to be around 84%.[7] In one study, the most sensitive findings on ultrasound were ovarian edema, abnormal ovarian blood flow, and relative enlargement of the ovary.[8] There may also be free fluid or the whirlpool sign, which is thought to be due to the twisting of the vascular pedicle in cross-section.[9] Blood flow should be assessed as compared to the contralateral ovary. Due to the ovaries having dual blood supply, the complete lack of flow is not necessary to be symptomatic. The ovary may also not be torsed at the time of ultrasound, which is why ultrasound alone cannot rule out ovarian torsion. CT and MRI are not generally used to diagnose ovarian torsion but are commonly done to rule out other abdominal pathology such as acute appendicitis. The definitive diagnosis of ovarian torsion is made by direct visualization of a rotated ovary during surgery. For this reason, if clinical suspicion remains high with relatively normal labs and ultrasound imaging, the patient must have surgical evaluation. ## Treatment / Management The treatment of ovarian torsion is surgical detorsion, preferably by a gynecologist. In reproductive age females, salvage of the ovary should be attempted, and the surgeon must evaluate the ovary for viability. Most often, the approach to surgery should be laparoscopic and involves direct visualization of a twisted ovary. The evaluation of viability is mostly by visualization. A dark, enlarged ovary with hemorrhagic lesions may have compromised blood flow but is often salvageable.[10] After detorsion, ovaries were