with chronic alcohol abuse and liver disease and usually develops following abrupt withdrawal of alcohol or an episode of acute intoxication. It is not uncommon for the ingested ethanol to have already been metabolized, leading to low or normal serum levels when checked. In normal alcohol metabolism, the ingested ethanol is oxidized to acetaldehyde and then to acetic acid with the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase, during which process the coenzyme nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) is reduced to NADH. The acetic acid can be shunted towards ketogenesis in favorable insulin/glucagon concentrations, which is seen in hypoglycemia. In addition to this, the increased NADH further suppresses gluconeogenesis and reduces free glucose, perpetuating ketogenesis.[6] After abrupt withdrawal, rising catecholamine levels as a bodily response cause lipolysis and ketosis. The high ratio of NADH to NAD+ also favors the reduction of acetoacetate to beta-hydroxybutyrate. In extremes of starvation, after the exhaustion of the free glucose and after that, the body’s glycogen reserves, fatty acids become the primary fuel source. This usually happens after 2 or 3 days of fasting. After several days of fasting, protein catabolism starts, and muscles are broken down, releasing amino acids and lactate into the bloodstream, which can be converted into glucose by the liver. This biochemical process is responsible for the wasting and cachexia seen during starvation. ## History and Physical Patients with DKA may have a myriad of symptoms on presentation, usually within several hours of the inciting event. Symptoms of hyperglycemia are common, including polyuria, polydipsia, and sometimes more severe presentations include unintentional weight loss, vomiting, weakness, and mentation changes. Dehydration and metabolic abnormalities worsen with progressive uncontrolled osmolar stress, which can lead to lethargy, obtundation, and may even cause respiratory failure, coma, and death. Abdominal pain is also a common complaint in DKA. Patients with AKA usually present with abdominal pain and vomiting after abruptly stopping alcohol. On physical exam, most of the patients with ketoacidoses present with features of hypovolemia from gastrointestinal or renal fluid and electrolyte losses. In severe cases, patients may be hypotensive and in frank shock. They may have a rapid and deep respiratory effort as a compensatory mechanism, known as Kussmaul breathing. They may have a distinct fruity odor to their breath, mainly because of acetone production. There may be neurological deficits in DKA, but less often in AKA. AKA patients may have signs of withdrawal like hypertension and tachycardia. There are