they do not improve after 1 to 3 doses of a fast-acting bronchodilator. - If they have recently completed a course in OCS. - Those who are on a maximal dose of controller medications. Patients with a peak flow value of 50% or lower despite administering a bronchodilator or continuing to worsen should seek immediate medical care while continuing to administer their fast-acting bronchodilator. Office management is similar to home management, with the addition that according to GINA guidelines, all patients with oxygen saturation below 90% should receive oxygen to maintain saturation above 92% or 95% for pregnant individuals. Albuterol treatment can be administered via an MDI or nebulizer, with a dosage of 4 to 8 puffs or 2.5 to 5 mg every 20 minutes for 1 hour, respectively. Research comparing the efficacy of an MDI combined with a valved-holding chamber to nebulizer delivery, both administering the same β-agonist but with significantly lower doses via MDI, demonstrates similar enhancements in lung function and risk reduction for hospitalization.[33][34][35] If oral glucocorticoids are unavailable, intramuscular steroids such as triamcinolone suspension (40 mg/mL) 60 to 100 mg can be an alternative. However, it is noteworthy that intramuscular glucocorticoids have a delayed onset of action of 12 to 36 hours. Patients meeting certain criteria such as a respiratory rate of 30 breaths per minute, a heart rate of more than 120 bpm, a continued peak flow of less than 50% predicted, oxygen saturation of less than 90%, or the inability to speak in full sentences should be transferred to the emergency department. Patients who can be sent home from the office should have their controller medications advanced in 1 step. In addition, it is essential to review the correct use of their inhaler, discuss trigger avoidance strategies, ensure they have an asthma action plan, and emphasize the importance of adhering to their controller medication. **Emergency Department Care** Within the first hour, patients should receive 3 treatments of an inhaled SABA, such as albuterol, via a nebulizer or MDI, followed by repeat dosing every 1 to 4 hours. In addition to a SABA, patients with severe asthma exacerbations should also receive inhaled ipratropium, a short-acting muscarinic antagonist (SAMA), at a dosage of 500 µg by nebulization or 4 to 8 puffs by MDI, every 20 minutes for 3 doses, and then hourly as needed for up to 3 hours. Current guidelines recommend discontinuing SAMA therapy