pump inhibitor should be administered, IV antibiotics should be given, and a surgical evaluation must be done. Then the decision can be made regarding whether the patient will require surgery. Sepsis accounts for approximately half of all mortalities in the setting of perforated peptic ulcers.[7] Given the high prevalence of sepsis and its associated mortality, antibiotics should be administered to all patients with a perforated peptic ulcer. Antibiotics should be broad-spectrum and cover gram-negative rods and anaerobes. A combination of a third-generation cephalosporin and metronidazole is a reasonable choice as is monotherapy with a combination beta-lactam/beta-lactamase inhibitor (i.e., ampicillin-sulbactam, piperacillin-tazobactam).[12] Intravenous proton pump inhibitors (PPI) help bleeding cessation and facilitate healing, but efficacy in perforated ulcers has not been established. That said, intravenous PPI administration should be given to creating a neutral pH environment that aids in maintaining platelet aggregation and hence should promote rapid sealing of perforated ulcers.[1][13] The mainstay treatment for a perforated peptic ulcer is early operative intervention as mortality significantly increases with surgical delay.[14] Surgery will typically consist of a peritoneal lavage of 5-10 liters of saline followed by an interrupted sutured closure of the perforated ulcer followed by an omental patch (Roseo-Graham patch). A drain is placed in the dependent areas and the abdomen is closed. The surgical drain is removed on postoperative days 3-5. This procedure can be done by an open approach or laparoscopically as there have been no significant differences in terms of mortality or clinically significant outcomes when comparing the two methods. A select number of patients may be chosen to forego surgery in favor of medical treatment alone. This option is a decision that would be made by the surgical consultant and would be limited to patients less than 70 years old with early presentation (less than 24 hours), mild/localized symptoms, and in stable condition. In such patients, perforated peptic ulcer is managed by iv fluids, antibiotics, Ryle's tube aspiration, constant monitoring of urine output, and electrolytes. This is referred to as the Hermen-Taylor regimen.[7][13] After 12 weeks follow-up gastroscopy must be done. ## Differential Diagnosis Differential diagnosis includes but is not limited to the following: - Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) - Acute coronary syndrome - Aortic dissection - Appendicitis - Boerhaave syndrome - Cholecystitis - Cholelithiasis - Choledocholithiasis - Diverticulitis - Duodenitis - Esophagitis - Foreign body ingestion - Gastritis - Hepatitis - Hernia - Mesenteric ischemia - Neoplasm