listed below: 1. Hypovolemia: hemorrhage, severe burns, and gastrointestinal fluid losses such as diarrhea, vomiting, and high ostomy output. 1. Hypotension from decreased cardiac output: cardiogenic shock, massive pulmonary embolism, acute coronary syndrome. 1. Hypotension from systemic vasodilation: septic shock, anaphylaxis, anesthesia administration. 1. Renal vasoconstriction: NSAIDs, iodinated contrast, amphotericin B, calcineurin inhibitors, hepatorenal syndrome. 1. Glomerular efferent arteriolar vasodilation (causing intraglomerular hypotension): ACE inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers. Intrinsic renal causes include conditions that affect the glomerulus or tubule, such as acute tubular necrosis and acute interstitial nephritis. This underlying glomerular or tubular injury is associated with the release of vasoconstrictors from the renal efferent pathways. Prolonged renal ischemia, sepsis, and nephrotoxins are the most common causes. It is worth mentioning that prerenal injury can convert into a renal injury if the offending factor's exposure is prolonged enough to cause cellular damage. A few examples of this mechanism are listed below: 1. Acute tubular necrosis (ATN): ischemia from prolonged prerenal injury; drugs such as aminoglycosides, vancomycin, amphotericin B, and pentamidine; iodinated contrast; rhabdomyolysis; intravascular hemolysis 1. Acute interstitial nephritis (AIN): Drugs such as beta-lactam antibiotics, penicillins, NSAIDs, proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), and 5-ASA; infection; autoimmune conditions (systemic lupus erythematosus [SLE], IgG-related disease); and hereditary AIN. 1. Glomerulonephritis: anti-glomerular basement membrane disease, immune complex-mediated diseases (such as SLE, post-infectious glomerulonephritis, cryoglobulinemia, IgA nephropathy, IgA vasculitis). 1. Intratubular obstruction: monoclonal gammopathy (such as in multiple myeloma), tumor lysis syndrome, hemolytic anemia, and toxins such as ethylene glycol. Postrenal etiology for AKI includes obstructive causes, which lead to congestion and urinary backflow of the filtration system, leading to a shift in the filtration driving forces. A noteworthy fact is that a unilateral obstruction may not always present as AKI, especially if the obstruction is gradual, because a normal working contralateral kidney may compensate for the function of the affected kidney. Pathological disturbances can occur within 2 hours of obstruction, starting with decreased filtration at the level of the glomerulus due to increased upper urinary tract pressure. This results in decreased renal perfusion, inflammation, tubular atrophy, and interstitial fibrosis. Eventually, bladder atony, periglomerular fibrosis, chronic interstitial nephritis, and secondary FSGS can develop. Weeks or months of obstruction can lead to ESRD. Once obstruction is released, post-obstructive diuresis occurs in up to 50% of patients and should be monitored for severe complications of hypovolemia and electrolyte abnormalities. The most common etiology of postrenal AKI is