Myocardial fibrosis or atrophy seen on computed tomography or MRI is associated with a poor surgical outcome. Occasionally patients undergo right heart catheterization for hemodynamic studies which may reveal increased right atrial pressure, increased right ventricle end-diastolic pressure, prominent x and y descent on venous and atrial pressure tracings and greater inspiratory fall in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure compared to the left ventricular diastolic pressure. ## Treatment / Management Pericardiectomy is the only definitive management of chronic constrictive pericarditis and effort should be made to remove as much of the pericardium as possible. Extensive penetration of the myocardium by fibrosis and calcification is associated with poor outcomes. Operative mortality ranges from 55% to 10%. It should be considered very cautiously in patients with mild disease with few symptoms or patients with advanced disease and other comorbidities due to the high mortality of the procedure. Diuretics can be used to reduce edema or elevated venous pressures before the surgery or for palliative control of symptoms in patients who are not surgical candidates.[1][12][13] A subset of patients may have a spontaneous resolution or may respond to medical management, and they are said to have transient constrictive pericarditis. Patients with newly diagnosed constrictive pericarditis who are hemodynamically stable and do not have stigmas of chronic constriction may be treated with anti-inflammatory agents for up to 3 months with close monitoring. If these patients develop signs of chronic constriction and hemodynamic instability they should undergo prompt surgical treatment. ## Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis for constrictive pericarditis includes: - Cardiac sarcoma - Cardiac tamponade - Dilated cardiac myopathy - HIV infections and AIDS - Hemochromatosis - Nephrotic syndrome - Ovarian cancer - Pericardial effusion - Sarcoidosis - Tricuspid regurgitation ## Complications The complications that can manifest with constrictive pericarditis are as follows: - Pulmonary hypertension - Hepatomegaly - Renal failure - Metabolic acidosis - Hypoxia - Shock - Death ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes In the US, constrictive pericarditis is not common, and long-term data are scarce. Anecdotal reports suggest that when the diagnosis is made early, the outcomes are good. But if the disorder is misdiagnosed or untreated, mortality rates in excess of 90% are common. For patients who undergo pericardiectomy, the 10-year survival is about 50%. Medical therapy alone leads to a poor life expectancy. The long-term survival after constrictive pericarditis depends on the cause. The worst outcomes are in patients with