and Physical The history and physical exam should focus on determining the etiology of AKI and the progression timeline. If the history points towards hypovolemia or hypotension, then the treatment is guided towards volume repletion. Providers should look for inciting events such as diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, which may have caused volume loss, or any over-the-counter drugs such as NSAIDs. Differentiating between AKI and chronic kidney disease (CKD) is essential, as CKD itself is not an uncommon risk factor for AKI. A history suggestive of CKD can include symptoms such as chronic fatigue, anorexia, nocturia, disturbed sleep-wake cycle, polyuria, and pruritis. Moreover, a careful review of past medical history may reveal comorbid conditions that can help narrow down the etiology of AKI, such as cirrhosis or a history of blood clots requiring anticoagulation. History and physical examination are essential in AKI because labs often cannot provide a clear answer as to the etiology of AKI. The most common causes of AKI in hospitalized patients are as follows: 1. ATN, 45% 1. Prerenal disease, 21% 1. AKI superimposed on CKD, 13% 1. Urinary tract obstruction, 10% 1. Glomerulonephritis or vasculitis, 4% 1. AIN, 2% 1. Atheroemboli, 1% A history of urine output may give clues as to the cause of AKI. The following are some associations: 1. Oliguria favors AKI. 1. Sudden anuria suggests acute urinary tract obstruction, acute glomerulonephritis, or vascular blockage. 1. Polyuria suggests either a concentrating tubular defect, such as acute interstitial nephritis, or postobstructive nephropathy. A detailed physical exam can provide extremely valuable information in establishing the etiology of AKI. A crucial part of the physical exam should be orthostatic vital signs, which may signify hypovolemia. Several organ systems can provide clues regarding the cause of AKI. Some of them are: 1. Skin: livedo reticularis, digital ischemia, butterfly rash, and purpuras to suggest vasculitis. A maculopapular rash may indicate drug-induced AIN. Needle marks may suggest IV drug use, which can cause endocarditis. Livedo reticularis and skin infarcts are also seen with cholesterol emboli disease. Decreased skin turgor suggests hypovolemia. 1. Eyes and ears: jaundice is present in liver disease, band keratopathy is present in multiple myeloma, diabetes mellitus can show microscopic retinopathy, and blood vessel narrowing is associated with hypertension. Keratitis, iritis, and uveitis may be present in autoimmune vasculitis. Hearing loss is associated with Alport disease. 1. Cardiovascular system: pulse rate, blood pressure, and jugulovenous pulse can