bladder outlet obstruction, which is often due to prostatic hypertrophy in older men, pelvic masses in older women, and nephrolithiasis in younger patients.[8] 1. Renal/ureteral calculi can present in the renal calyces, renal pelvis, bladder, or urethra. Size and location are the determining factors of AKI, and this is a significant etiology in those with a solitary kidney. Struvite and cystine stones grow especially rapidly and commonly cause obstruction. 1. Tumors, blood clots, and neurogenic bladder cause mechanical ureteral outlet obstruction. Blood clots can be a result of bladder or urinary tract malignancy. 1. Urethral obstruction is the most common cause of prostate enlargement in older men. The obstruction can also be caused by retroperitoneal fibrosis, pregnancy, fecal impaction, pelvic organ prolapse, pelvic masses/malignancy, or phimosis. ## Epidemiology AKI is commonly seen in hospitalized patients. In the United States, 1% of all hospital admissions have AKI on admission. During hospitalization, the approximate incidence rate of acute kidney injury is 2% to 5%, and it occurs in up to 67% of patients admitted to the intensive care unit. AKI is thus an important contributor to more extended hospital stays and patient morbidity.[9][10][11] ## Pathophysiology The pathogenesis of AKI is etiology-driven. The common endpoint in acute tubular necrosis is a cellular insult secondary to ischemia or direct toxins, which results in effacement of the brush border, cell death, and decreased function of tubular cells. One intrarenal cause is intratubular obstruction—such as by pigments such as myoglobin, crystals such as uric acid in tumor lysis syndrome, or immunoglobulin light chains, as seen in monoclonal gammopathy—which can also lead to the same result. Other intrarenal mechanisms of injury are glomerulonephritis or acute interstitial nephritis, which can be due to immune-mediated injury of the vasculature, inflammatory responses, and immune complex deposition leading to glomerular and tubular damage. Postrenal pathophysiology is usually related to urinary reflux, causing decreased renal perfusion, tubular atrophy, and interstitial inflammation. ## Histopathology Histopathology can reliably differentiate the intrinsic renal pattern of AKI from others; however, histopathology may not be reliable at narrowing down a specific cause in every situation. Renal biopsy is an invasive procedure and is usually only pursued in cases where a significant impact on management is expected, such as suspected glomerulonephritis or if multiple etiologies are possible. Immunofluorescence patterns, electron microscopy, and staining for fibrosis and inflammatory cells can help differentiate various causes in such cases. ## History