this setting is usually performed through a temporary venous catheter when required. Continuous renal replacement therapy can also be utilized in patients who cannot tolerate hemodialysis due to hypotension. It is a much slower, continuous type of dialysis. Correction of some of the metabolic abnormalities, along with dialysis, may be required. Metabolic acidosis is one such instance where systemic administration of citrate or bicarbonate is often required to maintain a suitable blood pH. The requirement for renal replacement therapy should be reevaluated daily. Renal replacement therapy is usually required for short periods, ranging from a few days to a few weeks; however, some cases can take months to recover and may require intermittent RRT support. Other treatments are directed at the etiology of the AKI. Examples include administering vasoactive medications and colloids for the treatment of hepatorenal syndrome, cautious diuresis in cardiorenal syndrome, immunosuppressive medication for various glomerulonephritides or vasculitides, or steroids for AIN. Postrenal obstruction may need to be relieved operatively in certain situations. For example, benign prostatic hypertrophy may require surgical intervention, and obstructive calculi may require stenting and lithotripsy. ## Differential Diagnosis Differential diagnoses to be considered in AKI include renal calculi, acute or chronic kidney disease, hypovolemia, gastrointestinal bleeding, decreased cardiac output, urinary tract infection, and urinary obstruction. Rarely, ingesting excessive protein or dietary supplements can cause elevated creatinine levels unrelated to kidney disease.[19] ## Prognosis Most prerenal AKI cases recover completely with correction of the underlying insult if treated early; however, the persistence of the underlying insult may lead to ATN, in which case the damage may not be completely reversible. Another consideration is that although recovery from individual episodes may be complete or partial, repeated AKI can lead to a cumulative worsening of renal function. Therefore, it is essential to monitor these patients closely to normalize renal function or until a new baseline is established. The in-hospital mortality rate for AKI is 40% to 50%, and the mortality for ICU patients is more than 50%. Other prognostic factors include: 1. Older age 1. Duration of illness 1. Fluid balance 1. Diuretic use 1. Oliguria 1. Hypotension 1. Inotropic support 1. Multiorgan involvement 1. Sepsis 1. Number of transfusions Over the long term, at least 12% to 15% of patients with AKI may require permanent dialysis. Mortality is increased in patients with high APACHE III scores, advanced age, and persistent creatinine elevation.[20][21] ## Complications Several