complications may associate AKI with mortality. Some of these complications are directly associated with AKI and can easily be gauged (hyperkalemia, volume overload, metabolic acidosis, hyponatremia); however, the effect of other complications on AKI-related mortality, such as inflammation and infection, is more difficult to assess. The most common complications include metabolic derangements such as: 1. Hyperkalemia can lead to arrhythmias and, if severe, is considered a medical emergency. 1. Metabolic acidosis may necessitate systemic administration of bicarbonate or citrate buffers. 1. Hyperphosphatemia can usually be prevented by decreasing dietary ingestion or using phosphate binders. 1. Other adverse effects include pulmonary edema from volume overload and peripheral edema from an inability to excrete body water. This is especially common in the oliguric phase of ATN. It may necessitate the use of diuretics or renal replacement therapy. The other organ-related complications include: 1. Cardiovascular: Heart failure secondary to fluid overload is attributable to oliguric AKI. Arrhythmias can be secondary to acidosis and electrolyte abnormalities. Cardiac arrest can result from metabolic derangements. Myocardial infarction and pericarditis are also rare complications. 1. Gastrointestinal (GI): Nausea, vomiting, GI bleeding, and anorexia can be associated with AKI. Amylase may be elevated with AKI, so the measurement of serum lipase should be used to diagnose pancreatitis if clinical suspicion is present. 1. Neurologic: CNS-related signs of uremia include lethargy, somnolence, disturbed sleep-wake cycle, and cognitive impairment. ## Deterrence and Patient Education For patients who have developed AKI, several factors should be advised to preserve renal function, such as avoiding nephrotoxic agents and dehydration. NSAIDs are also known to cause interstitial nephritis, which can lead to the development of AKI or the worsening of existing AKI. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers are known to affect renal autoregulation, and the use of these medications in AKI depends on the clinical picture. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes AKI has significant morbidity and mortality if left untreated. All healthcare workers should be educated on the condition, its causes, and potential complications. At the first signs of creatinine elevation, pharmacists should ensure that the patient is not on nephrotoxic medications. The patient should be educated that the regular consumption of NSAIDs is harmful to the kidney and that noncompliance with blood pressure medications can worsen kidney injury. Close follow-up with a nephrologist is highly recommended in all cases of AKI. The patient should have a dietary consult because salt and