The dose of regadenoson normally used is 0.4 mg, which is available only in a prefilled 5-ml syringe. The dose is immediately followed by a saline flush. The radiotracer is administered 10 to 20 seconds later, immediately followed by another saline flush.[12] The results of the ADVANCE MPI 2 trial have shown that regadenoson is non-inferior to adenosine for the detection of reversible defects and is safe and better tolerated.[13] The half-life of regadenoson is 2 hours. Contraindications: 1. Regadenoson is considered contraindicated for patients with second- or third-degree AV block or sick sinus syndrome. 1. Allergic response in the past to the agent 1. Hypotension with systolic blood pressure \<90 mmHg. 1. Poorly controlled blood pressure with systolic blood pressure significantly higher (greater than 200 mmHg at rest) 1. Patients who received dipyridamole in the last 2 days should also avoid regadenoson stress testing. 1. Patients with acute coronary syndrome or unstable angina or who experienced a myocardial infarction less than 1 week ago 1. Caution is advised in patients with reactive airway disease with wheezing Reversal of vasodilator effects: In patients who suffer from undesirable effects from pharmacologic stress testing agents, caffeine is given generally to counteract the effects. The use of caffeine in reversing the side effects is more beneficial in dipyridamole and regadenoson due to longer duration of action as compared to adenosine. Aminophylline can be used for more threatening side effects. **Dobutamine** Dobutamine is an inotropic agent that can be used for myocardial perfusion stress testing.[1] Dobutamine is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration for pharmacologic stress testing and rarely used currently. Dobutamine is a beta-agonist that results in the stimulation of beta1 and beta2 receptors.[14] Dobutamine, like exercise, increases myocardial oxygen demand and evokes ischemia if there is insufficient perfusion to the affected myocardium that can be seen on stress echocardiography or nuclear imaging. Beta-blockers should be held 24 hours before the dobutamine stress test due to the opposite antagonistic action. Dobutamine dose: Dobutamine is given as an infusion as an incremental dose beginning at 5 or 10 mcg/kg/min for 3 minutes. It is increased to 20, 30, and then 40 mcg/kg/min, also for 3-min intervals, for a maximum of 12 minutes or until the target heart rate is achieved. Radiotracer is injected at peak heart rate with dobutamine infusion continuing for one minute following tracer injection. The half-life of dobutamine is