(LBBB), paced rhythm, Wolff Parkinson White (WPW) syndrome, or greater than 1 mm ST-segment depression. These patients are suitable candidates for testing involving pharmacologic agents. Pharmacologic stress testing is used in combination with imaging modalities such as radionuclide imaging and echocardiography. ## Specimen Collection Pharmacological stress testing is a highly supervised procedure conducted under expert medical personnel supervision either in clinic or hospital. During the procedure, the patient will have electrodes attached to their chest, and also their vital signs are continuously monitored. The stress agent is injected through a peripheral intravenous line, which will increase blood flow through the coronary vasculature and mimic a response similar to exercise stress testing. Once a peak effect is attained, a small amount of radioactive material is inserted through the peripheral intravenous line. After that, a high-resolution gamma camera takes several pictures of the heart to get a better visualization of your coronary vasculature. During the resting phase, the gamma camera will take additional pictures which can be used as a comparison to the stress-induced perfusion imaging. ## Procedures Vasodilator agents currently approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) include:[1][3] 1. Adenosine 1. Dipyridamole 1. Regadenoson Vasodilators do not really stress the heart and create a coronary steal phenomenon by temporarily increasing blood flow to non-diseased vessels of the coronary vasculature at the expense of diseased vessels that can be visualized on nuclear imaging. Regadenoson is a newer vasodilator agent approved by the FDA in 2008 and most routinely used today due to its selective action on A2A receptors and lesser side-effects. Dobutamine is an alternative drug that acts as an inotrope and can be used in pharmacological stress testing. It is not approved by the FDA and rarely used currently. However, it can be used in patients who have contraindications to pharmacologic vasodilator stress agents such as in patients who have severe respiratory diseases like asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or when regadenoson is not readily available for these patients. ## Indications 1. Patients who are unable to tolerate exercise stress test due to abnormalities involving the respiratory system (severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)), provoked angina, hypotension during exercise, chronotropic incompetence. These patients are suitable candidates for testing involving pharmacologic agents.[4] 1. Patients who have baseline abnormal electrocardiogram which include the presence of left bundle branch block at baseline, left ventricular hypertrophy, paced rhythm, Wolf Parkinson White syndrome,