2 to 3 min. Indications: 1. Dobutamine is a secondary pharmacologic stress agent that is recommended only in patients who cannot undergo an exercise stress test and also have contraindications to pharmacologic vasodilator stress agents such as high degree AV block or reactive airway disease (if regadenoson is not available). Contraindications: 1. Patients with acute coronary syndrome or unstable angina or who experienced a myocardial infarction less than 1 week ago 1. Hemodynamically significant left ventricular outflow obstruction. 1. Atrial tachyarrhythmias with an uncontrolled ventricular response 1. Hypertension (systolic blood pressure over 200 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure exceeding 110 mmHg) 1. Aortic dissection 1. Known hypersensitivity to dobutamine ## Normal and Critical Findings Pharmacological stress testing with myocardial perfusion imaging can help to detect perfusion or wall motion abnormalities that indicate either infarction (seen on stress and rest images) or ischemia (seen on stress images only). The utility of cardiac stress testing is determined in part by pretest disease probability; false-positive results may lead to potential downstream testing and treatment. Conversely, in patients with high CAD pretest probability, false-negative studies lead to a missed diagnosis. Therefore, the greatest use is in patients with intermediate CAD probability, in whom a positive test significantly increases disease likelihood, and negative test significantly decreases the likelihood. Depending on that, further testing, such as coronary angiography, can be considered. ## Interfering Factors 1\. Caffeine and methylxanthines intake within 12 hours prior to stress testing with vasodilator stress agents. 2\. Beta-blockers taken in the last 24 hours if the patient is going for dobutamine stress testing. ## Complications Pharmacological stress testing is a relatively safe procedure with minimal side effects, but patients can occasionally suffer from undesirable side effects based on the mechanism of action of the pharmacologic stress agent used. Vasodilator agents, including adenosine, dipyridamole can produce bronchospasm and AV block. Less common with regadenoson due to its selective action. Dobutamine can cause tachyarrhythmias. ## Patient Safety and Education Caffeine is commonly offered to patients after the stress testing procedure, as it will likely reverse undesirable side effects. It is particularly helpful with regadenoson and dipyridamole, as they have a longer half-life than adenosine. More serious side effects can be treated with aminophylline, which is an adenosine receptor antagonist.[1] Beta-blockers can be used to treat side effects or toxicity caused by dobutamine. ## Clinical Significance In the majority of patients with an inability to