the first vasodilator used for myocardial perfusion stress testing. It is an indirect coronary artery vasodilator. It increases the tissue levels of adenosine by preventing the intracellular reuptake of adenosine by inhibiting enzyme adenosine deaminase prolonging its vasodilator effect and increasing adenosine blood levels.[9][10] Dipyridamole increases coronary blood flow to 3.8 to 7 times than baseline. The alpha half-life (the initial decline following peak concentration) is approximately 30 to 45 minutes. The beta-half life (the terminal decline in plasma concentration) is approximately 10 hours. It is metabolized in the liver to glucuronic acid conjugate and excreted in the bile. Dipyridamole dose: The dose of dipyridamole is 0.142 mcg/kg/min, or 0.57 mcg/kg.[9] Dipyridamole is infused over 4 min, with the radiotracer being injected 3 to 5 min after the completion of the dipyridamole infusion. Symptoms may last for a longer time than other vasodilators (15 to 25 minutes). Side effects of dipyridamole: 1. The incidence of atrioventricular (AV) block with dipyridamole is less than that observed with adenosine (2%). 1. Chest pain is seen in 20% but is nonspecific and not necessarily indicative of the presence of CAD. 1. Minor side effects include headache, dizziness, nausea, hypotension, and flushing. Contraindications: 1. Patients with bronchospastic lung disease with ongoing wheezing or history of significant reactive airway disease should not undergo dipyridamole stress testing. 1. Uncontrolled hypertension (systolic pressure of over 200 mmHg or a diastolic pressure of over 110 mmHg) 1. A systolic blood pressure of less than 90 mmHg. 1. Known hypersensitivity to dipyridamole. 1. Caffeine intake in the previous 12 hours 1. Second- or third-degree atrioventricular block without a functioning pacemaker. **Regadenoson** Regadenoson is another direct coronary artery vasodilator, which is a selective A2A agonist. The affinity with which regadenoson binds with A2A is 10 times greater than its affinity to bind with the A1 receptor and even weaker affinity to bind with A2B and A3 receptors. Regadenoson produces maximal hyperemia quickly and maintains it for an optimal duration that is more practical for radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging. Regadenoson's simple, rapid bolus administration in all patients, regardless of weight and short duration of hyperemic effect, has greatly simplified the method of stress testing as compared to adenosine and dipyridamole. It is the most commonly used currently due to lesser side effects and easier to perform.[11] Regadenoson dose: As mentioned earlier, the dosing of regadenoson is not weight-based like other vasodilators.