(PAX 8) are crucial for the proper expression of proteins creating the thyroid gland.[4] ## Organ Systems Involved The thyroid gland affects almost every organ system of the body. It affects the cardiovascular system by regulating the cardiac output, stroke volume, heart rate, and contractility. The defects in the thyroid mechanism can affect the nervous system, presenting as numbness, tingling, pain, or burning in the affected parts of the body. Hypothyroidism can also cause depression in patients. It is also involved with gastrointestinal motility. Thyroid gland disorders affect the reproduction system, with women suffering from irregularities in their menstrual cycles and problems when trying to conceive.[6] ## Function TSH from the anterior pituitary modulates the release of T3/T4 from thyroid follicular cells. T4 is deiodinated to T3, which is a more potent thyroid hormone. While about 20% of T3 originates from the thyroid gland, 80% of T3 is produced by peripheral conversion via a deiodinase, especially type 2. More than 99% of thyroid hormone is protein-bound to thyroid-binding globulin, pre-albumin, and albumin. T3 then binds to its receptor in the nucleus; this activates the transcription of DNA, which promotes the translation of mRNA and the synthesis of new proteins involved in the gland's functioning.[7] The thyroid influences many organ systems, such as promoting bone growth and maturation and the central nervous system's maturation. The basal metabolic rate is increased, with an increase in the synthesis of sodium (Na+)-potassium (K+)-ATPase, oxygen consumption, and heat production. Metabolism becomes activated with increased glucose absorption, glycogenolysis, gluconeogenesis, lipolysis, protein synthesis, and degradation (net catabolic). The hormones influence the cardiovascular system by increasing cardiac output, stroke volume, heart rate, and heart contractility by increasing the number of beta-1 receptors on the myocardium such that the myocardium is more sensitive to stimulation by the sympathetic nervous system, thereby increasing contractility.[8] ## Mechanism TSH binds and activates the thyroid gland. The TSH binds to the membrane receptor on the epithelial cell surface, activating the adenylate cyclase located in the plasma membrane, which increases the cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) levels. This leads to the stimulation of additional intracellular signaling events, resulting in the formation of thyroid hormones.[9] Iodide from the plasma is concentrated and absorbed by thyroid cells through the sodium/iodide symporter (NIS) on the basolateral membrane of thyrocytes (follicular cells). This process depends on sodium and active transport, meaning it couples inward translocation down its electrochemical gradient