with inward translocation of iodide against its electrochemical gradient. The iodide has to be delivered to the thyroglobulin-enriched colloid at the apical surface; this appears to be a function of another protein, pendrin, which is a chloride/iodide exchanger that promotes iodide efflux in the colloid-rich lumen. Within the thyroid follicle, thyroid peroxidase oxidizes, organifies, and couples iodine to tyrosine residues on thyroglobulin. Defects in any of these steps can result in dyshormonogenetic goiter and congenital hypothyroidism. Thyroglobulin is a glycoprotein with a molecular mass of 660 kDa enriched in tyrosine residues and secreted and stored in the colloid. Initially, thyroid peroxidase forms iodine by oxidation of the iodide ion. When TSH stimulates the thyroid follicle, thyroid peroxidase organifies or covalently bonds the tyrosine of the thyroglobulin molecule to colloid to iodine. If 1 iodine covalently bonds to tyrosine on the thyroglobulin, this forms monoiodotyrosine (MIT). If 2 iodine covalently bonds thyroglobulin, this forms diiodotyrosine (DIT). Thyroid peroxidase then couples an MIT with a DIT to form triiodothyronine (T3) or couples a molecule of DIT with another DIT to form thyroxine (T4). After the coupling, thyroglobulin is taken up by the thyrocyte for lysosomal degradation, releasing T4 and T3. DIT and MIT that are uncoupled are deiodinated by a dehalogenase to recycle and conserve any iodide. The thyroid gland secretes thyroxine (T4), which can convert to T3 in the periphery or reverse T3 (rT3). Triiodothyronine (T3) is active, whereas rT3 is inactive.[10] The hypothalamic-pituitary axis regulates TSH release. The hypothalamus secretes the thyroid-releasing hormone (TRH), which stimulates thyrotrophs in the anterior pituitary to secrete TSH. The anterior pituitary releases TSH and stimulates the thyroid follicular cells to release thyroxine, T4 (80%), triiodothyronine, or T3 (20%). When T4 is released into circulation, it can convert to T3 through deiodination. T4 and T3 can then exert negative feedback on TSH levels, with high levels of T3/T4 decreasing TSH and low levels of T3/T4 increasing TSH levels from the anterior pituitary. T3 is the predominant inhibitor of TSH secretion. Because TSH secretion is so sensitive to minor changes in serum-free T4 through this negative feedback loop, abnormal TSH levels are detected earlier than free T4 in hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism. There is a log-linear relationship between T3/T4 and TSH, with minor changes in TH resulting in major changes in TSH.[11] ## Related Testing Thyroid function monitoring is predominantly via TSH analysis, as it is the