best first-line test in evaluating hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism since the test is more reliable than plasma T3/T4, which fluctuates.[12] Testing for TSH is a first-line screening test for both hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism.[13] If values are outside the reference range of 0.4 to 4.5 milliunits/ml, measure T4 if TSH is elevated or measure T4 and T3 if TSH is decreased.[14] In hypothyroidism, if the cause is primary (originating in the thyroid gland), high TSH would be detected, which is the best first-line test.[15] This finding would be accompanied by low total T4, low free T4, hypercholesterolemia (decreased LDL receptor synthesis), plus elevated creatinine kinase levels and thyroid antibodies in Hashimoto disease.[16] ## Pathophysiology Graves' disease can cause hyperthyroidism in that there is an increased thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulin, thyroid neoplasm (for example, toxic adenoma), excess TSH secretion, or exogenous T3 or T4. Treatment for this should include propylthiouracil (which inhibits peroxidase enzyme and thyroid hormone synthesis), thyroidectomy, radioiodine therapy, which destroys the thyroid, and beta-adrenergic blocking agents (adjunct therapy).[17] The Jod-Basedow Effect occurs when excessive iodine loads induce hyperthyroidism. It is an observation in hyperthyroidism caused by Graves disease, toxic multinodular goiter, and toxic adenoma. The large iodine doses from dietary changes, contrast administration, and iodine-containing medication such as amiodarone can cause symptomatic thyrotoxicosis in these patients.[18] Hypothyroidism has symptoms that include decreased basal metabolic rate, weight gain and nitrogen balance, reduced heat production, cold sensitivity, decreased cardiac output, hypoventilation, lethargy and mental slowness, drooping eyelids, myxedema, growth retardation, mental retardation in perinatal patients, and goiter. When a patient exhibits these symptoms, an increased TSH would indicate negative feedback if the primary defect is in the thyroid gland. At the same time, a decreased TSH would indicate a defect in the hypothalamus or anterior pituitary. Hypothyroidism can result from thyroiditis (autoimmune or Hashimoto thyroiditis), surgery for hyperthyroidism, iodine deficiency, congenital (cretinism), or decreased TRH or TSH. Treatment for this should include thyroid hormone replacement.[19] The Wolff-Chaikoff effect occurs in patients with autoimmune thyroiditis when increasing doses of iodine increase thyroid hormone synthesis. The thyroid hormone synthesis ceases when iodine concentration increases further due to negative feedback. In patients with functional thyroid tissue, the thyroid can counter this decrease in iodine through the release and leakage of iodine. However, in patients with decreased functional thyroid tissue due to autoimmune thyroiditis, the thyroid cannot adapt and compensate for the decrease in thyroid hormone synthesis as