globulin to prevent isoimmunization. ## Treatment / Management The onset of placental abruption is often unexpected, sudden, and intense and requires immediate treatment. Prehospital care for a patient with a suspected placental abruption requires advanced life support and transport to a hospital with a full-service obstetrical unit and a neonatal intensive care unit. Upon arrival at the hospital, most women receive intravenous (IV) fluids, supplemental oxygen, and continuous maternal and fetal monitoring while the history and physical are completed. Subsequent treatment varies based on the data collected during the assessment, the gestation of the pregnancy, and the degree of distress experienced by the woman or the fetus.[11][12] Women classified with a class 1 or mild placental abruption, no signs of maternal or fetal distress, and pregnancy less than 37 weeks gestation may be managed conservatively. These patients are usually admitted to the obstetrical unit for close maternal and fetus status monitoring. Intravenous access and blood work for type and cross-match are part of the plan of care. The maternal-fetal dyad continues to be monitored until there is a change in condition or fetal maturity. Delivery is necessary if the collected data results in class 2 (moderate) or class 3 (severe) classification and the fetus is viable and alive. Because of the hypertonic contractions, a vaginal birth may occur rapidly. Given the potential for coagulopathy, vaginal birth presents less risk to the mother. However, if there are signs of fetal distress, an emergency cesarean birth is necessary to protect the fetus. Careful management of fluids and circulatory volume is important during the surgical procedure. Postoperatively, the patient needs to be monitored for postpartum hemorrhage and alterations in the clotting profile. A neonatal team must be in the delivery room to receive and manage the infant. ## Differential Diagnosis Bleeding during the second half of pregnancy is usually due to either placental abruption or placenta previa. Differentiating these 2 conditions is important to the patient's care. The information below compares the presentation of placental abruption and placenta previa on common parameters included in an obstetrical examination. - The onset of symptoms is sudden and intense for placental abruption but quiet and insidious for placenta previa - Bleeding may be visible or concealed with placental abruption and is external and visible with placenta previa - The degree of anemia or shock is greater than the visible blood loss in placental abruption and is