vascular networks connecting the uterine lining and the maternal side of the placenta are torn away. These vascular structures deliver oxygen and nutrients to the fetus. Disruption of the vascular network may occur when the vascular structures are compromised because of hypertension or substance use or by conditions that cause stretching of the uterus. The uterus is a muscle and is elastic, whereas the placenta is less elastic than the uterus. Therefore, when the uterine tissue stretches suddenly, the placenta remains stable, and the vascular structure connecting the uterine wall to the placenta tears away.[3][4] ## Epidemiology Placental abruption is a relatively rare condition but requires emergent management. The majority of placental abruptions occur before 37 weeks gestation. Placental abruption is a leading cause of maternal morbidity and perinatal mortality. With placental abruption, the woman is at risk for hemorrhage and the need for blood transfusions, hysterectomy, bleeding disorders, specifically disseminated intravascular coagulopathy, and renal failure. These can result in Sheehan syndrome or postpartum pituitary gland necrosis. With the availability of blood replacement, maternal death is rare but continues to be higher than the overall maternal mortality rate. Neonatal consequences include preterm birth and low birth weight, perinatal asphyxia, stillbirth, and neonatal death. In many countries, the rate of placental abruption has been increasing, even with improved obstetrical care and monitoring techniques. This suggests a multifactorial etiology that is not well understood.[5][3] ## Pathophysiology Placental abruption occurs when the maternal vessels tear away from the placenta, and bleeding occurs between the uterine lining and the maternal side of the placenta. As the blood accumulates, it pushes the uterine wall and placenta apart. The placenta is the fetus’ source of oxygen and nutrients, as well as the way the fetus excretes waste products. Diffusion to and from the maternal circulatory system is essential to maintaining these life-sustaining functions of the placenta. When accumulating blood causes separation of the placenta from the maternal vascular network, these vital functions of the placenta are interrupted. If the fetus does not receive enough oxygen and nutrients, it dies.[6][7] The clinical implications of a placental abruption vary based on the extent and location of the separation. Placental abruption can be complete or partial and marginal or central. The classification of placental abruption is based on the following clinical findings: **Class 0: Asymptomatic** - Discovery of a blood clot on the maternal side of a delivered placenta