inspected for the presence of bleeding. However, a digital examination of the cervix should be delayed until a sonogram is obtained for placental location and to rule out a placenta previa. If bleeding is present, the quantity and characteristic of the blood, as well as the presence of clots, is evaluated. Remember, the absence of vaginal bleeding does not eliminate the diagnosis of placental abruption. Evaluation of vital signs to detect tachycardia or hypotension, which may be indicators of a concealed hemorrhage, are taken. Blood specimens such as a complete blood count (CBC), fibrinogen, clotting profile, and type and RH may be collected. These laboratory values do not aid in diagnosing placental abruption but provide baseline data against which to evaluate the patient’s condition over time. Evaluation of fetal well-being is also included in the examination. Begin with auscultation of fetal heart sounds and ask about fetal movement, specifically recent changes in activity patterns. Continuous electronic fetal monitoring is initiated to identify prolonged bradycardia, decreased variability, and the presence of late decelerations. ## Evaluation There are no laboratory tests or diagnostic procedures to diagnose placental abruption definitively. However, some studies may be conducted to eliminate other conditions and provide baseline data.[8][9][10] An ultrasound examination is useful in determining the placental location and eliminating the diagnosis of placenta previa. However, ultrasound's sensitivity in visualizing placental abruption is low. During the acute phase of placental abruption, the hemorrhage is isoechoic or similar to the surrounding placental tissue. Therefore, visualization and differentiation of the concealed hemorrhage associated with placental abruption from the surrounding placental tissue are difficult. A biophysical profile may be used to manage conservatively treated patients with marginal placental abruption. A score of 6 or below indicates compromised fetal status. Blood work, including a CBC, clotting studies (fibrinogen and PT/a-PTT), and BUN, provides baseline parameters to evaluate patient status changes. If a blood transfusion is necessary, a type and Rh have been obtained. A Kleihauer-Betke test may be ordered to detect fetal blood cells in maternal circulation. This test does not diagnose the presence of placental abruption but quantifies the presence of fetal blood in the maternal circulation. This knowledge is important in Rh-negative women because the mixing of fetal blood in the maternal circulation may lead to isoimmunization. Therefore, if a significant fetal-maternal bleed is present, the Kleihauer-Betke test results help to determine the needed dose of Rh (D) immune