equal to that in placenta previa. - Pain is intense and acute in placental abruption and is unrelated to placenta previa. - The uterine tone is firm and board-like in placental abruption and soft and relaxed in placenta previa. ## Prognosis The prognosis depends on when the patient presents to the hospital. If the bleeding continues, both maternal and fetal lives are at stake. Partial placenta separation is associated with low mortality compared to full separation; however, in both cases, without an emergent cesarean section, fetal demise may occur. The condition accounts for 5% to 8% of maternal deaths today. ## Complications The complications that can manifest with placental abruption are as follows: - Severe hemorrhage - Fetal demise - Maternal death - Delivering premature infant - Coagulopathy - Transfusion-associated complications - Hysterectomy - Cesarean section means future deliveries are all via cesarean section - Recurrence has been reported in 4% to 12% of cases - Increased risk of adverse cardiac events have been reported in women with placental abruption ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Placental abruption is a serious pregnancy complication and is best managed by an interprofessional team of healthcare professionals, including an obstetrician, radiologist, hematologist, obstetric nurse, and intensivist. The triage nurse should know this condition and immediately admit and notify the emergency department physician. While the patient is being resuscitated, the obstetrician should be called ASAP. Immediate transfer to an ICU setting is highly recommended, and blood should be crossed and typed in case needed. Placental abruption is a true obstetric emergency and requires collaboration between the anesthesiologist and the radiologist. Operating room nurses should be informed of the patient so that the room can be prepared. In case the fetus is premature, the neonatal ICU team should be notified. Only with a team approach can the morbidity and mortality of this disorder be lowered. While the condition cannot be prevented, the patient must be encouraged to stop smoking to lower the risk. Another major risk factor is the abuse of cocaine, which must be curtailed. Some patients may benefit from drug counseling and or drug rehabilitation.[13][14] **Outcomes** Placental abruption is a life-threatening disorder for both the mother and the fetus. If the bleeding is not arrested, then the lives of the mother and fetus are in jeopardy. If there is complete or near separation of the placenta, death is inevitable unless an immediate cesarean section