or computing the albumin or protein gradient between serum and pleural fluid is helpful. A serum-to-pleural fluid albumin ratio exceeding 1.2 g/dL or a serum-to-pleural fluid total protein gradient greater than 2.5 g/dL in suspected heart failure could indicate a transudative effusion.[16] Exudative effusions require further investigation to identify the underlying cause. In some cases, cell count differentials can aid in narrowing down potential diagnoses. A primarily lymphocytic effusion may suggest tuberculosis, post-CABG, rheumatoid arthritis, yellow nail syndrome, chylothorax, or malignancy. Eosinophilia in pleural effusion is rare and typically observed in pneumothorax, hemothorax, parasitic disease, or drug-induced effusion. Parapneumonic effusions show a neutrophil-predominant cell count. Pleural LDH values exceeding 1000 U/L are observed in tuberculosis, lymphoma, and empyema. A pH below 7.2 indicates a complex pleural effusion in the setting of pneumonia, which almost always requires CTT insertion for drainage. Low pH levels may also indicate esophageal rupture or rheumatoid arthritis. Condition-specific markers, such as acid-fast bacilli smear, _Mycobacterium tuberculosis_ culture, and adenosine deaminase, are indicated when tuberculosis is suspected. Amylase levels are evaluated if pancreatitis-related effusion is apparent. Pleural fluid triglycerides greater than 110 mg/dL signify a chylothorax. The pleural fluid in such conditions typically has a milky-white appearance. Hemothorax can be established if the pleural fluid hematocrit is more than 0.5 times that of the serum hematocrit. Cytological testing is necessary in suspected cases of malignant pleural effusion. The sensitivity of pleural fluid cytology for diagnosing malignant effusions after the first thoracentesis is approximately 60%. However, the diagnostic yield increases with additional attempts, achieving a success rate of up to 90% after 3 samples are collected on separate days. A medical thoracoscopy with pleural biopsy is recommended after 2 successive thoracenteses if a malignant effusion is highly suspected despite negative cytology results.[17] Invasive procedures are available to investigate exudative effusions that yield unclear results in noninvasive diagnostic tests, including closed-needle and image-guided needle biopsies, thoracoscopy, or video-assisted thoracic surgery. The clinical presentation is generally sufficient to identify a transudative effusion's cause, and additional testing may not be necessary. Nonetheless, considering less common causes, such as trapped lung, is essential where pleural elastance measurements may be required. Urinothorax is another common cause of effusion, requiring pleural and serum creatinine levels for diagnosis. ## Treatment / Management Management primarily focuses on identifying and treating the underlying cause of pleural effusion. Pleural fluid drainage is recommended for symptomatic patients. In asymptomatic