of more than 0.5 - Pleural fluid LDH/serum LDH ratio of more than 0.6 - Pleural fluid LDH is more than two-thirds of the upper limit of the normal serum LDH value [5][6] If none of these criteria are met, the fluid is considered transudative. According to Heffner's criteria, a modification to Light's, an exudative effusion is characterized by one or more of the following: - Pleural fluid protein level exceeding 2.9 g/dL - Pleural fluid cholesterol level greater than 45 mg/dL - Pleural LDH level greater than two-thirds of the upper limit of normal serum LDH [7] Common causes of transudative pleural effusion include conditions that alter the hydrostatic or oncotic pressures in the pleural space, such as left heart failure, nephrotic syndrome, liver cirrhosis, hypoalbuminemia, or peritoneal dialysis. Common causes of exudative pleural effusion include pulmonary infections, such as pneumonia or tuberculosis; malignancy; inflammatory disorders, such as pancreatitis, lupus, and rheumatoid arthritis; postcardiac injury syndrome; chylothorax; hemothorax; post-coronary artery bypass grafting (post-CABG); and benign asbestos pleural effusion. Less common causes of pleural effusion include pulmonary embolism (exudative or transudative), drug-induced reactions (exudative), radiotherapy (exudative), esophageal rupture (exudative), and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (exudative). Drugs commonly associated with pleural effusion development include methotrexate, amiodarone, phenytoin, and dasatinib.[8][9] ## Epidemiology Pleural effusion is the most common pleural space disease, affecting 1.5 million patients annually in the United States and leading to significant healthcare costs.[10]However, insufficient large-scale epidemiological studies exist surrounding its various etiologies. Based on currently available data, the condition's occurrence rate appears to differ geographically. Notably, heart failure, malignant pleural effusion, and parapneumonic effusions account for the majority in terms of annual incidence. ## Pathophysiology The amount of fluid in the pleural space is typically around 0.1 to 0.3 mL/kg, significantly influencing the hydromechanical coupling between the lung and chest wall. Pleural fluid is derived from the blood vessels of the parietal pleural surfaces, filtered out by the hydrostatic pressure of systemic vessels. This fluid is subsequently reabsorbed through the lymphatic vessels, primarily located in the dependent portions of the pleural cavity. Accumulation of excess fluid can occur from various mechanisms. Simplistically, excessive production or decreased absorption can overwhelm the normal homeostatic mechanisms within the pleural space. The pathophysiology of pleural effusion includes several mechanisms, including increased pulmonary capillary pressure, as observed in heart failure and renal failure, and increased pulmonary capillary permeability, commonly associated with pneumonia. Pleural effusion can