also result from decreased intrapleural pressure, such as in atelectasis, and decreased plasma oncotic pressure, as observed in hypoalbuminemia. In addition, pleural effusion can arise due to increased pleural permeability from infections or inflammation, obstruction of pleural lymphatic drainage by malignancies, and fluid migration from other sites or cavities such as the peritoneum or retroperitoneum. Furthermore, rupture of thoracic vessels, leading to haemothorax or chylothorax, and drug-induced effects can also contribute to the development of pleural effusion.[11][12] ## History and Physical Pleural effusion symptoms can vary from no discernible signs to exertional breathlessness, depending on the restriction of thoracic movement. The pathophysiology associated with pleural effusion is not fully understood in the scientific literature. The amount of effusion seems to correlate poorly with the severity of symptoms. The impact of effusion on thoracic expansion appears to exert the most salient influence. Additional plausible etiologies include oxygen impairments and coexisting intraparenchymal diseases, such as pulmonary edema in the setting of heart failure.[13] The patient may present with symptoms such as cough, fever, and systemic signs, depending on the underlying cause of the effusion. Although rare, effusions can occasionally attain a size significant enough to induce hemodynamic changes, imitating tamponade physiology. Patients with active pleural inflammation called pleurisy complain of sharp, severe, localized crescendo-decrescendo pain with breathing or coughing. Pleuritic pain tends to subside when an effusion develops. Constant pain is also a hallmark of malignant diseases such as mesothelioma. The physical examination findings can range from subtle to florid. Intercostal space fullness and percussion dullness are appreciated in large effusions. Auscultation reveals decreased breath sounds and tactile and vocal fremiti. Egophony is most pronounced in the superior aspect of effusion. Pleural rubs, often mistaken for coarse crackles, can be heard during active pleurisy without any effusion. As pleural effusion results from varied diseases, history should focus on the causes of miscellaneous pulmonary and systemic effusions. Inquiring about a patient's comorbidities, medications, clinical indicators for infectious diseases, and predisposing factors to malignancies is advisable. A comprehensive physical examination should also encompass various potential diagnostic considerations. For example, congestive heart failure should be suspected in a patient with jugular venous distension, S3 heart sound, and pedal edema. Advanced liver cirrhosis should be considered in individuals with ascites and caput medusae. ## Evaluation A chest radiograph is an excellent initial imaging study for identifying pleural effusion. In an upright posteroanterior view, the meniscus sign