most common symptom of pneumomediastinum is retrosternal chest pain (60 to 100% of patients), which may radiate to the neck or back. Pain is typically acute in onset and may be preceded by excessive coughing or vomiting. Other symptoms include: - Dyspnea (75% of patients) - Coughing spells (80% of patients) - Neck pain (36% of patients) - Odynophagia - Dysphagia - Emesis - Abdominal pain The most common sign on physical exam is subcutaneous emphysema (70% of patients). An uncommon but specific sign that may be present is the Hamman sign, a mediastinal crunch or click synchronous with the heart sounds auscultated over the cardiac apex. Other signs include: - Rhinolalia (nasal tone of speech) - Dysphonia - Hoarseness - Neck swelling - Tachycardia - Tachypnea Rarely, patients may present with malignant pneumomediastinum, which is severe pneumomediastinum that obstructs the great vessels of the heart resulting in cardiac tamponade physiology.[3] ## Evaluation Pneumomediastinum is usually diagnosed on chest X-ray. The most common finding is air outlining mediastinal structures (90% of cases).[8] Lateral chest x-rays are rarely needed. Other signs on chest x-ray include: - Subcutaneous emphysema - Elevation of the thymus in pediatric patients (spinnaker sign) - Air surrounding the pulmonary arteries of the lung (ring sign)[8] - A hyperlucent V shape between the descending aorta and the left hemidiaphragm[9] - Double bronchial wall - Continuous diaphragm sign - Pleural effusion (which may indicate esophageal injury)[7] If chest x-ray findings are equivocal, a computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest can definitively rule in or rule out pneumomediastinum.[9] CT scans can detect very small amounts of air in the mediastinum or subcutaneous tissues and can differentiate between pneumomediastinum and pneumopericardium, which can be difficult to do on a chest X-ray. In emergent situations, ultrasound may be helpful in identifying pneumomediastinum. The “air gap sign” may be present, which appears as broadband of sonographic echoes that obscure the cardiac structures beneath. Other findings may include air adjacent to the heart or diaphragm and subcutaneous hyperechoic white foci suggestive of air bubbles in the soft tissue.[9][10] Additional studies such as bronchoscopy, esophagoscopy, or esophagography are typically not required in most cases of pneumomediastinum.[8] Obtaining these additional tests is warranted, given the clinical context. In blunt trauma, the absence of aerodigestive injury on multidetector CT in the setting of pneumomediastinum is adequate to rule out additional traumatic sequelae related to the aerodigestive