The patient should complement calcitonin intake with calcium and vitamin D supplementation. Monitoring BMD measurements is necessary every 1 to 2 years after initiating the calcitonin therapy. Furthermore, additional parameters such as height, weight, serum calcium, and serum calcifediol levels should be evaluated in the patient annually. Biochemical markers of bone turnover can also help assess the response to treatment.[7] Furthermore, the patient should be questioned about chronic back pain during each visit. **Paget disease of bone** Calcitonin is an FDA-approved medication and secondary treatment option for Paget disease of bone, prescribed when issues of bisphosphonate tolerance arise. Clinically, calcitonin can provide relief in bone pain, reverse neurological deficits, reduce blood flow to the diseased bone, and may even improve hearing loss associated with Paget disease.[8] Calcitonin therapy reaches its peak effect on osteoclasts within 24 to 48 hours, in contrast to bisphosphonate therapy, which takes 3 months to achieve maximal suppression of bone resorption.[9] This characteristic of calcitonin makes the drug a preferred choice in situations where prompt surgery on the Pagetic bone is imperative. In a study involving 24 patients with untreated Paget disease of bone, calcitonin administration reduced skeletal blood flow to the affected Paget bone. This effect could lead to decreased disease activity and lessened bleeding during surgical interventions. The markers of bone remodeling and turnover, namely serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and urine hydroxyproline, were also reduced.[10] A separate study involving 85 patients similarly exhibited 50% reductions in ALP and urine hydroxyproline levels over 3 to 6 months. However, among these individuals, 22 reverted to baseline values despite continuous treatment. Interestingly, out of these 22 patients, 19 developed elevated titers of anti-calcitonin antibodies.[11] This phenomenon reduces the long-term effectiveness of calcitonin in a substantial number of patients. In contrast, bisphosphonates are not susceptible to antibody formation and have demonstrated greater anti-resorptive effects. Due to the extended half-life within the Paget bone, bisphosphonates effectively suppress disease activity for years, even after treatment cessation.[12] Although bisphosphonates are a better option for long-term management, calcitonin may be better suited for providing acute relief from Paget-associated bone pain.[13][8] As Paget's disease of bone is a chronic condition, calcitonin therapy can be sustained indefinitely. Patients are initially administered 50 to 100 units of calcitonin daily through IM or SQ administration, followed by a maintenance dose of either 50 units daily or 50 to 100 units every 1 to 3 days. Serum