cough. Pulmonary function tests (PFTs) usually reveal restrictive lung function impairment, decreased functional vital capacity, and diminished carbon monoxide diffusing capacity. Early diagnosis is pivotal for effective management, given the disease's tendency to progress rapidly in advanced stages. Diagnosis can often be established without biopsy through a comprehensive assessment of clinical history, imaging results, and exclusion of alternative conditions. Classic imaging patterns on computed tomography (CT) scans typically reveal a peripheral distribution of bilateral fibrosis, particularly accentuated at the bases.[1] However, a lung biopsy may be required in cases where diagnostic uncertainty persists.[2][3][4] Notably, lung biopsy in any form carries inherent risks. Generally, it is avoided for patients with newly detected interstitial lung disease (ILD) showing a usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP) pattern on high-resolution CT (HRCT) scans.[5] Treatment strategies include supportive measures, oxygen supplementation as needed, antifibrotic medications, and lung transplantation for severe cases, representing the sole known curative option. ## Etiology The exact etiology of the development of IPF is unknown. The characteristic feature involves abnormal fibroblast activation and subsequent deposition of extracellular matrix by these cells.[6] The current theory on the etiology of IPF suggests that recurrent injury to the alveolar epithelium triggers a cascade of signaling by the immune system, leading to fibroblast formation. Additional mechanisms contributing to IPF may include impaired DNA repair and abnormal folding and processing of surfactant proteins.[7] A dysregulated response to the injury can cause tissue remodeling of the fibrotic tissue. The onset of this process is likely caused by multiple mechanisms.[8] Specifically, fibroblast proliferation may be mediated by the transition of epithelial–to-mesenchymal cells, invasion of fibrocytes, or expansion of fibroblasts.[7] Fibrosis is caused by both the innate and adaptive immune systems. Key innate immune cells involved in IPF include neutrophils, monocytes, and fibrocytes, which serve as precursors for fibroblasts. Meanwhile, the T-helper 2 inflammatory response and type 2 cytokines are part of the adaptive immunity responsible for IPF pathogenesis. Together, these processes increase pro-fibrotic factors such as interleukins (IL) 9 and 13, as well as transforming growth factor (TGF)-β. Dendritic cells also help propagate ongoing inflammation.[8] In addition, inflammation is believed to trigger the activation of alveolar epithelial cells, ultimately leading to the accumulation of fibroblasts and myofibroblasts, thereby promoting excessive extracellular matrix deposition.[9] The initial insults for inflammation are often related to exposure to cigarette smoke and air pollution. Aging is a primary risk factor for IPF, as with aging,