function and ejection fraction must also be assessed to rule out left-sided heart failure. - The chest X-ray may be normal or show signs of cardiomegaly or pulmonary vascular congestion. - Pulmonary function tests are useful in excluding diagnoses such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, or other interstitial lung diseases. Right-sided heart catheterization and pulmonary angiography are the most important diagnostic tools for establishing a definitive diagnosis. A mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP) greater than 30 mmHg or systolic PAP of greater than 50 mmHg is diagnostic for pulmonary hypertension.[1] If possible, it is important to attempt catheterization and angiography at the altitude of residence. ## Treatment / Management Limited data is currently available to guide the long-term management of HAPH. Several studies have shown that some treatments recommended for managing other causes of pulmonary hypertension have improved symptoms and mPAPs. Patients suffering from HAPH should be advised to move to lower altitudes. Some studies have shown that mPAPs for patients have normalized within 2 years of returning to lower altitudes.[11] Pharmacological treatments for HAPH can include phosphodiesterase and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. - Phosphodiesterase inhibitors (ie, Sildenafil) block the breakdown of nitrous oxide, promote pulmonary artery vasodilation, and decrease mPAP.[12] - Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors (ie, Acetazolamide) are useful in preventing acute mountain sickness. Studies have also shown a decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance.[1] However, Acetazolamide has not been studied specifically for treating HAPH, and the benefits may be minimal. Due to Acetazolamide's low side effect profile, it is safe to incorporate as a treatment option. - Endothelin receptor blockers (ie, Bosentan) have also been used to treat pulmonary hypertension. Some studies have shown that venovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation can be beneficial for severe cases in the acute setting. Despite all efforts and recommendations, if an individual develops irreversible pulmonary hypertension, the mainstay of treatment is pulmonary transplantation.[13] ## Differential Diagnosis Patients with HAPH can present with dyspnea on exertion, fatigue, chest pain, and peripheral edema. Other causes of heart failure and pulmonary hypertension to consider are: - Asthma - Congenital heart disease - Connective tissue disease - Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - Diastolic dysfunction - Interstitial lung disease - Systolic dysfunction ## Prognosis Early recognition and treatment are critical for the successful management and outcomes of any form of pulmonary hypertension. Treatments that decrease pulmonary artery pressures and maximize the right ventricle, such as pulmonary vasodilators, are the mainstay