by simply rearranging the alveolar equation. The alveolar partial pressure of CO2 is proportional to the body’s metabolic rate and is inversely proportional to the alveolar ventilation rate. We can understand this principle in the context of exercise. During exercise, our body’s metabolic rate of CO2 productions was to double, then the alveolar partial pressure of CO2 would also double if alveolar ventilation remains the same. Conversely, if the rate of alveolar ventilation doubles, then the alveolar partial pressure of carbon dioxide would become half, given a constant metabolic CO2 production. Ventilation is physiologically controlled by respiratory rate and tidal volume. Increase or decrease in either of the two changes ventilation. In cases of hypoxia, the body tends to hyperventilate, and thus the partial pressure of CO2 reduces as more gets expelled from the body. The causes of hypoxia can be divided into the following categories\[13\]: - Central: Head injuries, stroke, hyperthyroidism, anxiety, pain, fear, stress, drugs, medication-induced, and toxin-induced - Pulmonary causes: Embolism, pneumothorax, pneumonia, acute asthma or COPD exacerbations - Iatrogenic causes primarily occur in intubated patients on mechanical ventilation While ventilation is measured best by looking at CO2 partial pressures, oxygenation is measured by looking at oxygen partial pressures. In the clinical setting, the measurement of the amount of oxygen saturation in blood is via pulse oximeters. They provide a warning about the presence of hypoxemia to patients. The basis of pulse oximetry is on two principles: (1) the presence of a pulsatile signal that is generated by the arterial blood in the finger and (2) the different wavelengths generated by oxyhemoglobin and reduced hemoglobin. However, oxygenation and ventilation are 2 separate things. While pulse oximeter provides accurate measurement of oxygen saturation, it does not provide any information about alveolar ventilation. Oxygen saturation is considered a moderately later sign of less-than-desired ventilation; hence, despite providing visual quantification of oxygen saturation, pulse oximetry does not provide real-time assessment of alveolar ventilation. The best example of this principle is seen in conditions of sedation, which depresses the central respiratory drive to arterial carbon dioxide tension, resulting in arterial hypoxemia accompanied by alveolar hypoventilation. Although pulse oximetry is currently the standard of care for determining accurate oxygen saturation, it lacks the potential to provide early warning to detect hypoventilation, apnea, or airway obstruction in patients. Oxygenation involves inhaling O2, diffusing it through the alveolocapillary membrane into the blood that will