resuscitation in patients with crush injuries to prevent rhabdomyolysis-related AKI and reduce the need for hemodialysis. Patients trapped for longer periods may have already developed AKI by the time they present at the hospital; aggressive fluid resuscitation in these patients is particularly challenging, as they are prone to volume overload.[55] Unfortunately, no studies have directly compared the outcomes of different types and rates of fluid resuscitation. Current International Society of Nephrology Renal Disaster Relief Task Force guidelines recommend field resuscitation with isotonic saline rather than alkaline fluids.[56] The addition of dextrose to normal saline can be beneficial in supplying some calories and minimizing hyperkalemia. Two liters should be administered at 1 L/h for the first 2 hours, followed by 500 mL/h in a well-built adult. The rate of fluid administration is also dependent on age, gender, body habitus, the possibility of bleeding, and the nature of trauma. Potassium-containing IV fluids like Ringer's lactate are generally avoided in managing rhabdomyolysis. Once hospitalized, close monitoring of urine output is essential. After confirming urine output and obtaining labs documenting the absence of alkalosis, consideration should be given to the alkalinization of urine to prevent the precipitation of myoglobin in the distal convoluted tubule. Urine alkalinization also decreases the precipitation of uric acid, corrects underlying metabolic acidosis, and reduces the risk of hyperkalemia. Most data regarding the alkalinization of the urine are from uncontrolled case series. Adding 50 mEq of sodium bicarbonate to half-normal saline is the traditional method to alkalinize urine. Alkalinization with a bicarbonate infusion is associated with the precipitation of hypocalcemia, which can trigger tetany and seizures. The goal of alkaline fluid infusion is to maintain a serum pH not to exceed 7.5 and a urine pH just above 6.5. Bicarbonate in IV fluids should be promptly discontinued when serum pH is at 7.5.[57] Mannitol is commonly used to improve urine output in patients with a crush injury but should only be initiated after the patient maintains adequate urine output of at least 20 mL/h. There are no specific conscientious guidelines regarding mannitol administration. A trial of intravenous infusion of 60 mL of 20% mannitol given over 5 minutes can be used to assess for increased urine output. If there is an increase in urine output of 30 to 50 mL/h compared to the baseline, mannitol can be continued.[58] Mannitol should be avoided in patients with AKI, oliguria, or anuria. Adverse