changes in the glomerulus. Various other biomarkers are being investigated for early diagnosis of heme-containing pigment-induced AKI.[52] Excessive tissue breakdown from rhabdomyolysis causes electrolyte changes, including hyperkalemia and hyperphosphatemia. AKI can be complicated by resistant hyperkalemia. Excessive calcium influx into the myocytes can cause hypocalcemia, which may be severe depending on the nature of the injury. Excessive cell breakdown causes increased uric acid levels. Rhabdomyolysis can also cause the release of organic acids like lactic acid and contribute to metabolic acidosis with or without an anion gap.[11] Electrocardiography may demonstrate peaked T waves, a prolonged PR interval, a wide QRS interval with or without conduction blocks, ventricular tachycardia, and asystole secondary to hyperkalemia. Hypocalcemia can manifest as QTC prolongation. Plain radiographs can explain underlying bone fractures, dislocation of the joints, and sometimes soft tissue swelling. Computed tomography (CT) of the involved muscle groups may identify compartment syndrome.[53] Diagnosis of acute compartment syndrome is primarily clinical; this diagnosis can be confirmed by measuring intra-compartmental pressure (invasive) or near-infrared spectroscopy (noninvasive). Additional testing like magnetic resonance imaging, muscle biopsy, or electromyography is not required to diagnose rhabdomyolysis. Muscle biopsy is generally performed after complete recovery from rhabdomyolysis and helps identify inflammatory myopathies when suspected from the clinical history. Inflammatory and metabolic myopathies are considered in the differential diagnosis in patients with recurrent rhabdomyolysis, poor exercise tolerance, muscle cramps, easy fatigue, and a positive family history. ## Treatment / Management The goal of rhabdomyolysis management is to maintain adequate fluid resuscitation and prevent AKI. The first step in effective management is identifying the underlying cause of the muscle injury and removing that stimulus, if possible. The active management of rhabdomyolysis should include continuous assessment of the airway, breathing, and circulation, frequent physical examinations, appropriate hydration to improve end-organ perfusion, close monitoring of urine output, correction of electrolyte abnormalities, and identification of complications like compartment syndrome and disseminated intravascular coagulation. **Management of Traumatic Rhabdomyolysis** In patients with a crush injury or injuries, initiating intravenous (IV) hydration and fluid resuscitation should begin as early as possible, ideally in the field and, when possible, before relieving the injurious stimulus. Hydration should be continued during transport. Delaying fluid resuscitation may cause worsening hypovolemia secondary to third spacing. Fluids should be liberally administered to maintain adequate intravascular volume and diuresis; volumes of 10 L to 20 L may be required.[54] Multiple studies have demonstrated the benefit of large-volume