preload and cause systemic hypotension. One-lung ventilation should be avoided if at all possible. Blood flow decreases to the non-ventilated lung, causing an acute exacerbation of pulmonary hypertension due to hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction.[6] Medications: Pharmacologic therapies for pulmonary hypertension continue to emerge. The vasodilator drugs that are widely used for treatment are prostanoids, endothelin receptor antagonists, nitric oxide, and phosphodiesterase inhibitors.[9] Prostanoids mimic prostacyclins and produce vasodilation and inhibit platelet aggregation. Epoprostenol, an intravenous medication, has been shown to reduce mortality. Endothelin is a vasoconstrictor; therefore, endothelin antagonists help with vasodilation. They also have anti-inflammatory effects and decrease the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle.[10] These medications are only available in oral form and have shown improvement in hemodynamics and exercise capacity. Nitric oxide stimulates pulmonary vasodilation by stimulating guanylate cyclase and subsequently cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). Unfortunately, the effects are short because cGMP is rapidly degraded by phosphodiesterase. Continuously inhaled nitric oxide is commonly used in the perioperative period. Phosphodiesterase inhibitors, such as sildenafil and tadalafil, are more appropriate for chronic therapy and have shown benefits for patients with pulmonary hypertension due to left heart disease. However, there are no clear benefits for phosphodiesterase inhibitors in pulmonary hypertension due to chronic lung or thromboembolic disease.[11] If the patient was recently diagnosed with pulmonary hypertension, then sildenafil, a phosphodiesterase inhibitor, is a possible preoperative treatment to prevent pulmonary hypertension exacerbations.[3] ## Issues of Concern The anesthesiologist needs to balance blood pressure, fluid management, oxygenation, and acid-base physiology throughout the procedure. Unfortunately, even with the best efforts, complications may arise. These can include acute right heart failure, arrhythmias, systemic hypotension, and even death. With right heart failure, the right heart is not adequately pumping blood through the pulmonary vasculature and the left heart, decreasing cardiac output. It is managed by fluid administration, afterload reduction, and improved contractility. If the patient has depleted intravascular volume due to excessive blood loss or insensible losses, the heart cannot maintain cardiac output because of inadequate right-sided filling pressures. In this situation, fluid administration would be appropriate to increase filling pressures and thus cardiac output. To reduce the right ventricle afterload, first correct any hypercapnia, hypoxia, or acidemia present. If those are corrected and there is no improvement, then pulmonary vasodilators should be added. Lastly, improving right ventricle contractility with inotropic agents such as norepinephrine may be beneficial.[12] The most dangerous intraoperative complication from a pulmonary hypertension