exacerbation is right ventricular failure causing persistent systemic hypotension. Systemic hypotension is not well tolerated in these patients and needs to be aggressively treated with vasoconstrictors such as vasopressin or phenylephrine, an alpha-one agonist. To avoid exacerbations, treatment with inhaled vasodilators such as nitric oxide or iloprost, a synthetic analog of prostacyclin PGI2, may be beneficial.[3] The most common arrhythmias are supraventricular tachycardia, and they can trigger right heart decompensation. The goal is to restore sinus rhythm with either electrical cardioversion, radiofrequency ablation, or drug therapy such as amiodarone. If the patient undergoes a cardioversion or ablation without success, then rate control with beta-blockers or calcium channel blockers must be considered.[9] ## Clinical Significance Pulmonary hypertension, similar to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, is a chronic and progressive disease that usually causes a delay in diagnosis and, therefore, treatment.[7] The incidence of patients presenting for surgery with treated or untreated pulmonary hypertension continues to increase worldwide. Recognizing symptoms during the preoperative evaluation and understanding how to formulate the safest anesthetic plan is crucial for anesthesiologists today because of the high morbidity and mortality rates. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Caring for a patient with pulmonary hypertension during the perioperative period is a team effort. The operating room is a high-stakes environment that forces people together from various training backgrounds and specialties. Multiple physicians, including the surgeon, anesthesiologist, pulmonologist, cardiologist, and intensivist, need to discuss the short-term and long-term care goals for the patient as well as potential challenges and complications. If the surgery is not emergent, it is ideal for the team to optimize the patient for surgery and begin patient education to help manage the disease long term. Although there may be patient frustrations about surgical delays, the medical team must maintain an open dialogue and assure the patient that their overall health and safety are of the utmost importance. When developing an anesthetic plan, talk with the pharmacist about the potential medications you may need during the surgery as they may not be easily accessible in the operating room or even available at the hospital. On the day of surgery, there needs to be clear communication between the anesthesia technicians, nursing staff, and anesthesiologists about special needs during the procedure, such as arterial blood gas draws. The nurses in the recovery unit should be reminded to watch for signs and symptoms of complications such as heart failure and respiratory