quick intervention and determining the appropriate ventilatory management.[2] A central venous catheter with a pulmonary artery catheter should be placed to monitor central venous and pulmonary artery pressures and targeted therapy for vasopressors, vasodilators, and fluids. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) can be used to evaluate the right ventricle. The mid-esophageal four-chamber view is ideal for measuring the dimensions of the right ventricle. A right ventricle that is volume overloaded will shift the septal wall to the left during diastole, causing the left ventricle to look like the letter “D.” If the right ventricle is pressure overloaded, it shifts the septal wall during systole.[8] TEE can also be utilized to calculate the pulmonary artery pressure and evaluate volume status.[5][6] Induction: General anesthesia is a common anesthetic approach for patients with pulmonary hypertension. Peripheral nerve blocks and/or epidurals are helpful for perioperative pain control. Uncontrolled pain can be a trigger for a pulmonary hypertension exacerbation. Spinal anesthesia should be avoided because of the rapid onset and profound sympatholytic effects.[6] Prior to induction, the patient should be pre-oxygenated with 100% oxygen to increase their functional residual capacity and avoid hypoxemia. Etomidate, a quick-onset sedation agent, is ideal for induction because it minimally affects cardiac function and systemic vascular resistance and is generally well tolerated with pulmonary hypertension. Intravenous or nebulized treatments with prostanoids or nitric oxide can be given to minimize pulmonary hypertensive responses to intubation.[6] A rapid sequence induction with an experienced provider is preferred. If laryngoscopy is attempted before achieving a deep level of anesthesia, it may cause intense sympathetic stimulation and worsen the patient’s pulmonary hypertension.[4] cAdding a benzodiazepine and/or opioid during induction will help decrease a sympathetic response.[6] The overall goals are to avoid changes in preload, systemic vascular resistance, and contractility for the right ventricle to maintain cardiac output.[3] Ventilation: Once the airway is secured, the anesthesiologist may begin ventilator management and use volatile inhaled anesthetics to maintain anesthesia. It is preferred to begin with low tidal volumes, 6 ml/kg, and keep peak airway pressures under 30 mm Hg.[6] Ventilator settings should include a higher fraction of inspired oxygen, hyperventilation if necessary to maintain partial pressure of exhaled carbon dioxide between 30 to 35 mm Hg, and positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP), ideally between 5 and 10 cm water.[4] Increase the fraction of inspired oxygen rather than PEEP to improve oxygenation because increasing levels of PEEP will begin to compromise