disease, liver cirrhosis, and hypoalbuminemia. These patients must be monitored during IV administration with serial physical exams to determine if they are becoming clinically hypervolemic. Further adverse effects may include allergic reactions ranging from mild local redness and itching to generalized symptoms, local infection, redness, and even regional cellulitis, which can progress to systemic infection if not intervened. Many of these symptoms may be secondary to the actual intravenous site access rather than the contents of Ringer’s lactate itself. Allergic reactions are more common with adhesive dressings to secure IV access rather than the contents of Ringer’s lactate itself. IV infiltration is also a possibility, which can cause localized swelling, redness, and pain and ultimately is treated with conservative management and replacement of the IV access. Infection therapy can include local to systemic antibiotic therapy, depending on the severity. ## Contraindications Not an absolute contraindication, but more of a consideration, is the administration of Ringer’s lactate in patients with liver dysfunction. Most of the lactate is metabolized in the liver, and any hepatic dysfunction will result in an accumulation of lactate. This can confuse the interpretation of lactate levels. In the acute setting, patients with cerebral edema requiring osmotic therapy should avoid all hypotonic or isotonic fluid, including Ringer’s lactate. The goal of therapy is to draw out free water from brain parenchyma using hypertonic fluid administration. Although studies have compared the 2, a single study compared conventional fluid resuscitation versus hypertonic saline in hypotensive patients with traumatic brain injury in the prehospital setting. Findings were nearly identical neurological function 6 months after the injury between the 2 groups; however, conventional therapy is to avoid isotonic saline in the acute setting.[8] ## Monitoring Patients on any intravenous fluid replacement need to be monitored for fluid overload. As stated above, any crystalloid fluid distributes across the extracellular fluid compartment equally in an approximately 3 to 1 ratio (interstitial: intravascular) under normal physiologic conditions. That is to say, giving 1 L of Ringer’s lactate causes only 250 mL to remain in the intravascular fluid compartment. Giving too much crystalloid fluid causes fluid overload that can progressively worsen peripheral and pulmonary edema. High-risk patients at high risk for fluid overload include those with congestive heart failure, renal disease, and liver cirrhosis. In these cases, IV fluid administration should proceed cautiously.[9] Additionally, monitoring of electrolytes may be warranted with Ringer’s lactate administration. Given that