refers to the osmotic gradient between the intracellular and extracellular compartments. Thus, isotonic fluid is given intravenously (IV) does not move across into the intracellular compartment but does distribute across the entire extracellular compartment (interstitial and intravascular), usually proportionally to the compartment volumes (interstitial 75% to 80%, intravascular 20% to 25%). ## Administration Ringer’s lactate is administered most commonly via IV route but may also be safely administered intraosseously. The goal of administering Ringer's lactate is to replenish the intravascular volume to permit adequate organ perfusion.[4] ## Adverse Effects There is a fear of Ringer’s lactate causing hyperkalemia and worsening lactic acidosis. To put it in perspective, Ringer’s lactate does include a concentration of potassium 4 mEq/L. Logically, giving a hyperkalemic patient additional potassium would worsen hyperkalemia; however, this is not the case. A patient's potassium volume of distribution is larger than the extracellular compartment and equilibrates between the intracellular and extracellular compartments. Therefore, giving a patient, even a patient with renal failure, 4 mEq/L of potassium is not an additive effect.[5] In fact, giving Ringer’s lactate to a patient with hyperkalemia will trend the patient’s potassium level to 4 mEq/L.[6][7] Furthermore, patients' hyperkalemia may worsen with metabolic acidosis. Consequently, large-volume IV administration of normal saline may give patients a hyperchloremic non-anion gap metabolic acidosis. Ringer’s lactate does not have this effect. Ringer’s lactate is often avoided in septic patients secondary to the fear of worsening lactic acidosis. This is also untrue, as the content of Ringer’s lactate is sodium lactate, not lactic acid. Administration of Ringer’s lactate will cause an excess of lactate, which will be utilized by the body for energy. However, in today’s practicing culture, there tends to be an emphasis on blood lactate levels.[3] This emphasis can lead to confusion in the interpretation of lactic acid levels. The adverse effect of worsening lactic acid is not seen with Ringer’s lactate. Ringer’s lactate also has a calcium concentration which prohibits its use as a diluent for blood transfusions. Some blood products use citrate as an anticoagulant and, when mixed with calcium, leads to the precipitation of calcium citrate, which may cause clotting and obstruction of the IV line. Patients can receive blood products and Ringer’s lactate simultaneously; however, not within the same line. As with any IV fluid administration, there is a possibility of swelling and edema. At-risk patients are those with congestive heart failure, chronic kidney