1. Liver function tests (LFTs) to evaluate fulminant hepatic failure 1. Electrocardiogram (EKG) for screening tachyarrhythmias 1. Complete blood count (CBC), urinalysis, coagulation profile, chest radiography, computed tomography (CT) head scan, or lumbar puncture in the undifferentiated altered mental status patient 1. Qualitative urine immunoassays (urine drug screens) for amphetamines should not guide the clinical management of patients. The major limitation of amphetamine immunoassays is the high rate of false positives and false negatives. An actual positive result means that the patient used a certain amphetamine within the past several days and did not distinguish acute or recent use. The gold standard of drug testing, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis, may misidentify isomeric substances such as _l_ -methamphetamine (present in nasal inhalers) versus _d_ -methamphetamine. - Xenobiotics that cause false-positive qualitative amphetamine screens include pseudoephedrine, L-ephedrine, procainamide, mexiletine, selegiline, bupropion, trazodone, and amantadine. - Xenobiotics known to cause false negatives include MDMA and cathinones. ## Treatment / Management Initial management includes continuous cardiac monitoring, maintaining a patent airway, and prioritizing breathing and circulation. For the agitated patient, temporary physical restraints may help gain pharmacologic control. They should be discontinued as soon as possible to avoid the development or worsening of rhabdomyolysis and heat generation. A core temperature (rectally or bladder) greater than 105 °F (40.5 °C) represents rapid life-threatening hyperthermia and takes precedence after initial airway evaluation.[25] Treatment of hyperthermia involves both rapid sedation to control agitation and external cooling. External cooling with whole-body ice-water immersion is effective for treating life-threatening hyperthermia.[28][29][30] Sedation with IV benzodiazepines such as diazepam (10 mg) or lorazepam (2 mg) is the first-line treatment for agitation secondary to acute amphetamine toxicity.[31] The predictable pharmacokinetics, high therapeutic index, and anti-epileptic activity of benzodiazepines make for an effective treatment for undifferentiated agitated patients. If IV access is unavailable, intramuscular doses of midazolam are effective. Sedation should be titrated rapidly until the patient is calm.[32] Rhabdomyolysis from acute amphetamine toxicity occurs from psychomotor agitation and hyperthermia. Supportive care with IV hydration should maintain a urine output of at least 1 to 2 mL/kg/h. Urine acidification may increase elimination and decrease the half-life of amphetamines. Still, it is not recommended since it does not decrease toxicity and increases the risk of acute kidney injury (AKI) from rhabdomyolysis.[33][34] Hemodialysis may be required in patients with renal failure, severe acidemia, and hyperkalemia. Given the limited evidence and potential harms, dantrolene is not