septic shock ensues.[14] Septic shock is distinguished from other shock states as a distributive type of shock. The action of a combination of inflammatory mediators (histamine, serotonin, super-radicals, lysosomal enzymes) elaborated in response to bacterial endotoxins leads to a marked increase in capillary permeability and a concomitant reduction in peripheral vascular resistance. This translates not only into a reduction in afterload but also in preload from a decline in venous return from third-spacing. The resulting reduction in stroke volume is accommodated initially by an elevation in heart rate, i.e., compensated septic shock. As a result, the patient is in a hyperdynamic state that is characteristic of septic shock.[1] Clinically, patients have a dynamic precordium with tachycardia and bounding peripheral pulses. They are warm to the touch and have a reduction in capillary refill (flash cap refill). This is described as warm shock. As shock progresses, elevated catecholamine production leads to an increase in peripheral vascular resistance as the body attempts to shunt blood away from non-vital tissues (gastrointestinal (GI) tract, kidneys, muscle, and skin) to the vital tissues (brain and heart). This is described as cold shock. Understanding the pathophysiology and continuum of septic shock is imperative in initiating appropriate treatment measures.[1] Functionally, septic shock is defined by persistent hypotension despite adequate fluid resuscitation from 60 ml/kg to 80 mL/kg of either crystalloid or colloid fluid. At this point, the initiation of appropriate vasoactive medications such as beta-adrenergic or alpha-adrenergic drugs is of utmost importance. The progression of organ dysfunction despite high-dose vasoactive administration defines the state of multiorgan dysfunction syndrome (MODS), which carries mortality as high as 75%. While the exact circumstances predicting poor prognosis and death have been difficult to determine, immunologic dissonance (exaggerated pro-inflammatory response) versus immunologic paralysis (exaggerated anti-inflammatory response) have been purported to play a role.[15] ## History and Physical **Early Signs and Symptoms** Sepsis is defined as systemic inflammatory response syndrome plus an infectious source. Therefore, earlier on in the presentation of sepsis, patients present with the following vital sign changes: - Fever, temperature higher than 38 C, or hypothermia, temperature lower than 36 C - Tachycardia with a heart rate higher than 90 beats per minute in adult patients or less than two standard deviations for age in pediatric patients - Tachypnea with respiratory rate greater than 20 breaths per minute in adult patients or more than two standard deviations for age in