aortic stenosis [AS]), Left ventricular inflow obstruction (MS, atrial myxoma) - Contractility defect: ischemic and non-ischemic cardiomyopathy, arrhythmias, septic shock with myocardial depression, myocarditis - Pulmonary embolus (right ventricular with or without left ventricular failure) - Right ventricular failure - Aortic dissection - Other causes include cardiotoxic drugs (doxorubicin), medication overdose (beta/calcium channel blockers), metabolic derangements (acidosis), electrolyte abnormalities (calcium or phosphate) Risk of Cardiogenic shock after ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI): - Age more than 70 years - Systolic blood pressure less than 120 mmHg - Sinus tachycardia or bradycardia - A long duration of symptoms before treatment ## Epidemiology The incidence of cardiogenic shock is in decline, which can be attributed to increased rates of use of primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for acute MI. However, approximately 5% to 8% of STEMI and 2% to 3% of NON-STEMI cases can result in cardiogenic shock. This can translate to 40,000 to 50,000 cases per year in the United States.[6][7] Cardiogenic shock has a higher incidence in the following classes of patients: - Elderly population - Patient population with diabetes - Prior history of left ventricular injury - Female gender ## Pathophysiology The pathophysiology of cardiogenic shock is complex and not fully understood. Ischemia to the myocardium causes derangement to both systolic and diastolic left ventricular function, resulting in a profound depression of myocardial contractility. This, in turn, leads to a potentially catastrophic and vicious spiral of reduced cardiac output and low blood pressure, perpetuating further coronary ischemia and impairment of contractility. Several physiologic compensatory processes ensue. These include: - The activation of the sympathetic system leading to peripheral vasoconstriction may improve coronary perfusion at the cost of increased afterload, and - Tachycardia increases myocardial oxygen demand and subsequently worsens myocardial ischemia. These compensatory mechanisms are subsequently counteracted by pathologic vasodilation that occurs from the release of potent systemic inflammatory markers such as interleukin-1, tumor necrosis factor-a, and interleukin-6. Additionally, higher levels of nitric oxide and peroxynitrite are released, which also contribute to pathologic vasodilation and are known to be cardiotoxic. Unless interrupted by adequate treatment measures, this self-perpetuating cycle leads to global hypoperfusion and the inability to effectively meet the metabolic demands of the tissues, progressing to multiorgan failure and eventually death. ## History and Physical The presenting symptoms of cardiogenic shock are variable. The most common clinical manifestations of shock, such as hypotension, altered mental status, oliguria, and cold,