in central apneas, and each one acts through a distinct pathophysiological pathway. Thus, the degree of alveolar ventilation often serves as a basis for an alternate classification of CSA. Patients with heart failure are often hypocapnic during wakefulness and have an increased propensity to develop hyperventilation related CSA; however, hypoventilation related CSA commonly occur in neuromuscular diseases (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, brainstem stroke), overuse of medications with side effects of central nervous system depression (opioids), cervical spinal cord injury and structural abnormalities affecting pulmonary dynamics (kyphoscoliosis).[3][4] ## Etiology Patients with various medical conditions tend to develop central breathing instability during sleep, perpetuating CSA. Atrial fibrillation (AF), heart failure (HF) either with preserved or reduced ejection fraction (EF), ischemic stroke, spinal cord injury, renal failure, and chronic opioid use predispose patients to acquire central apnea via transient diminution of ventilatory output. CSA occurs predominantly in most cardiovascular conditions, and itself is an independent risk factor associated with poor outcomes. In rare instances, no apparent cause is identified and thus, is referred to as idiopathic or primary.[5] ## Epidemiology Bixler et al. demonstrated that the central apnea index was higher in older adults when compared to the middle age group (12.1% vs. 1.8%).[6] The prevalence of CSA tends to increase with age and is higher in the elderly population above 65 years of age. A cross-sectional study reported the prevalence of CSA in men aged 65 years and older as 2.7% by using a modified form of the ICSD-3 classification.[7] It can be explained by relatively increased chemo responsiveness in the elderly population that prone them to develop central apnea, particularly during non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep.[8] Compared with men, women are less susceptible and often require a larger magnitude of hypocapnia to develop central apnea.[9] ## Pathophysiology The pathophysiology of CSA can be variable due to its temporal relation with different comorbidities. Depending on the underlying medical condition, hypoventilation or hyperventilation with resultant hypocapnia below an apneic threshold is an integral mechanism that reinforces the evolution of central apnea. Reduced ventilatory drive during NREM sleep can induce central apnea and hypopnea even in healthy individuals. The mechanism is complex, but studies have shown that central chemoreceptors and upper airway mechanics play important roles.[10][11] In addition, ventilatory control can contribute to the resultant central apnea in a susceptible patient population, particularly patients with neuromuscular disorders (such as spinal cord injury) or chest wall