option in hypercapnic CSA, especially if the patient is unresponsive to CPAP. Dohi et al. suggested the effectiveness of BPAP in patients with HF and CSA with CSB.[25] BPAP acts to normalize the AHI by increasing ventilation and augmenting alveolar volume. A longitudinal cross-section study also suggested using CPAP and BiPAP to treat opioid-related CSA.[26] - ASV; is a form of PAP that provides ventilatory support individualized to the patient's effort. A servo-controlled inspiratory pressure is delivered over positive end-expiratory pressure based on the detection of apneas. It remains a therapeutic option for CSA patients with preserved EF and improves AHI and left ventricular EF (LVEF).[17] A multicenter largest trial (SERVE-HF) revealed that the use of ASV was associated with increased mortality in HF patients with reduced EF.[27] Therefore, ASV is not recommended for the treatment of CSA in this particular group of patients. Nocturnal oxygen therapy in previous trials has decreased the number of apneic episodes during sleep times for patients with CHF. It also improved NYHA functional class quality of life, and EF was noted at the end of 12-week in patients with central sleep apnea.[28] These findings were confirmed over 52 weeks in a similar trial, ensuring improved quality of life.[29] Unilateral placement of phrenic nerve stimulators is another treatment option for patients with central sleep apnea. A recent study suggested that such therapy was associated with decreased disease severity and improved quality of life. It also resulted in significant improvement in the arousal index, improved quality of life, and a decreased self-reported daytime sleepiness. These benefits were independent of heart failure status.[30] Peripheral nerve stimulation works by restoring the normal physiological mechanics of breathing. Different pharmacological agents have been studied as a potential treatment for central sleep apnea. However, these medications remain investigational, and there is no approved pharmacological treatment for CSA. Hypnotics such as triazolam and zolpidem can reduce wakefulness and unstable sleep.[31] These medications may lead to increased total sleep, decreased central apnea index, and a decrease in brief arousals.[31] Respiratory stimulants such as acetazolamide, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, work by causing mild metabolic acidosis, resulting in increased respiratory drive decreases the frequency of central apneas.[32] Recently, other medications such as Buspirone [33]and Mirtazapine have been studied.[33][34] Both drugs reduced the susceptibility to developing hypocapnic central apnea in individuals with spinal cord injuries. Theophylline, a non-selective adenosine receptors antagonist, has been used in the