abnormalities (such as kyphoscoliosis). The enhanced chemosensitivity to arterial carbon dioxide levels during sleep results in overall increased loop gain, leading to ventilatory instability and CSA, especially in patients with HF.[12] Opioids and other medications with CNS sedating properties can suppress the respiratory rhythm generator located within the brainstem. Thus, the development of CSA can be attributed either to reduced central ventilatory motor output or high loop gain. Regardless of the underlying condition or mechanism, once a cycle has started, it perpetuates the next one, resulting in repetitive episodes of hypoxia and irregular breathing, ultimately leading to upper airway narrowing.[1] ## History and Physical Patients with CSA present with stereotypical complaints related to disrupted sleep, which are akin to the other forms of sleep apnea. They typically complain of poor-quality sleep, nocturnal awakening, sleep fragmentation, excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS), morning headache, fatigue, and impaired concentration span. However, snoring occasionally is not a prominent feature of CSA. While OSA and CSA are two different entities, sometimes they coexist, and patients have mixed characteristics. Increased body weight index is associated with an increased risk of OSA; however, patients with CSA are relatively less obese. Additional symptoms are pertinent to the underlying disease process in patients with hypercapnic central apnea. An interesting clinical observation about the patients with HF is that they often don't recognize or report daytime symptoms despite the objective evidence of sleepiness.[13][14] Increased daytime sympathetic activity can explain this lack of perceived disrupted sleep, which augments alertness and counteracts sleepiness.[15] A recent study demonstrated an inverse relationship between the degree of subjective daytime sleepiness and mortality risk.[16] Thus, the presumptive diagnosis of sleep apnea should be considered in HF elderly patients with subjective complaints of fatigue even if they lack typical EDS. ## Evaluation Early detection and diagnosis of CSA can be challenging solely based on self-reported symptoms of disrupted sleep. Nocturnal polysomnography (PSG) is the gold standard diagnostic test in evaluating central apnea is nocturnal polysomnography (PSG). The diagnostic criteria for CSA were published by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM) in ICSD-3 [2] and varies according to the type of CSA.[17] It generally requires evidence of recurrent central apneas on PSG recording and exclusion of alternative diagnoses. Central apnea is defined as a cessation of flow during sleep for at least 10 seconds without effort (figure 1).[18] - Diagnosis of primary CSA can be made if PSG