reveals ≥5 central apneas and/or central hypopneas per hour of sleep, with a total number of these central events being >50% of total respiratory events in the apnea-hypopnea index with no evidence of Cheyne-Stokes breathing (CSB).[18] Additionally, there must be at least one complaint related to disrupted sleep, i.e., sleepiness, insomnia, awakening with shortness of breath, snoring, or witnessed apneas. - Diagnosis of CSA with CSB requires the criteria of primary CSA with three or more consecutive central apneas or hypopneas separated by a crescendo–decrescendo respiratory pattern with a cycle length of ≥40 seconds. - Diagnosis of treatment-emergent central apnea requires to have a primary diagnosis of OSA (with an apnea-hypopnea index ≥ 5 obstructive respiratory events per hour of sleep) followed by resolution of the obstructive apnea and emergence or persistence of CSA (not explained by the presence of other disease or substance) during positive airway pressure (PAP) titration study. ## Treatment / Management The primary goals in CSA management are to stabilize sleep by suppressing abnormal respiratory events and optimizing the treatment of comorbid conditions. Positive airway pressure (PAP) remains a standard treatment for both central and obstructive apnea that can be delivered as continuous PAP (CPAP), Bi-level PAP therapy (BPAP), and adaptive servo-ventilation (ASV). Apart from PAP devices, additional therapeutic options include supplemental Oxygen, carbon dioxide, and pharmacologic agents. A longitudinal study demonstrated that CPAP and BPAP are more effective for CSA management in HF and opioid use.[19] The heterogeneity of disease necessitates individualized therapies for the proper management of CSA rather than a homogenous treatment approach. The treatment can include mechanical pressure devices, Oxygen, nerve stimulators, and/or pharmacological therapies.[20] **Mechanical Devices** - CPAP; has been recommended as the first-line therapy for CSA. Available literature and data support CPAP's beneficial effect on CSA.[21][22] It can be explained by its ability to maintain airway patency, stabilizing the compensatory ventilatory output. In concurrent obstructive episodes, CPAP is a reasonable therapeutic option. The Canadian CPAP (CANPAP) trial was the most extensive randomized controlled study to evaluate the effect of CPAP on morbidity and mortality in patients with CSA and HF.[23] The study did reveal a modest reduction in mean apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) to 19 events per hour of sleep without significant effect on mortality. A subsequent post hoc analysis showed a reduction in mortality rate in those patients who responded to CPAP therapy.[24] - BPAP; It can be a viable