have a greater than or equal to 20 pack-year smoking history and are either actively smoking or have quit within the past 15 years. ## Pearls and Other Issues **Palliative Care in Lung Cancer** All therapeutic options, surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation have a role in managing pain and other symptoms in terminal lung cancer patients. Surgery results in better outcomes in patients with at least three months of expected survival and good performance status. Surgical procedures for palliation include tumor bypass procedures, partial resection of the tumor, and removal of metastasis. Surgical intervention may be beneficial in patients with lung cancer if there is airway obstruction, hemoptysis, pleural or pericardial exudate, or metastases to the brain or bone. Almost 30% of lung cancer patients experience central airway occlusion, and bronchoscopic laser destruction followed by stent placement provides immediate relief in such patients.[47] Chemotherapy helps alleviate symptoms of pain and cough and may prolong survival. Palliative radiation provides symptomatic relief in 41% to 95% of lung cancer patients. Almost 60% of lung cancer patients, regardless of type and stage, receive radiation treatments during their course of illness. Radiation plays a crucial role in alleviating pain symptoms due to metastasis, particularly brain and bone metastasis. Endoscopic treatment, such as brachytherapy, helps control symptoms due to airway narrowing.[48][49] ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Despite all the advances, the outcomes for lung cancer remain abysmal. The key reason is that most patients are diagnosed with advanced-stage disease. To improve outcomes, an interprofessional team approach with close communication between the members may perhaps lead to earlier diagnosis and treatment. Most patients with lung cancer are first seen by the primary care provider, nurse practitioner, or internist. These clinicians need to have a high suspicion of lung cancer in smokers and others with occupational exposures and order the appropriate imaging tests when indicated. Referral to a thoracic surgeon should be done on a timely basis. The thoracic surgeon's definitive diagnosis and management plan for lung cancer are made in collaboration with the radiologist and pathologist. After surgery, nurses usually monitor the patients for oxygenation, ventilation, and pain. Since many of these patients are smokers, they also have other comorbidities like heart disease and peripheral vascular disease, which often present with symptoms in the post-operative period. Thus, nurses must be extra vigilant for physical abnormalities and communicate with the surgeon. After surgery, patients need prolonged rehabilitation. Some