out.[1][2][3][4] ## Etiology Risk factors for primary spontaneous pneumothorax - Smoking - Tall thin body habitus in an otherwise healthy person - Pregnancy - Marfan syndrome - Familial pneumothorax Diseases associated with secondary spontaneous pneumothorax - COPD - Asthma - HIV with pneumocystis pneumonia - Necrotizing pneumonia - Tuberculosis - Sarcoidosis - Cystic fibrosis - Bronchogenic carcinoma - Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis - Severe ARDS - Langerhans cell histiocytosis - Lymphangioleiomyomatosis - Collagen vascular disease - Inhalational drug use like cocaine or marijuana - Thoracic endometriosis Causes of iatrogenic pneumothorax - Pleural biopsy - Transbronchial lung biopsy - Transthoracic pulmonary nodule biopsy - Central venous catheter insertion - Tracheostomy - Intercostal nerve block - Positive pressure ventilation Causes of traumatic pneumothorax - Penetrating or blunt trauma - Rib fracture (see **Image.** CT, Rib Fracture) - Diving or flying Causes of tension pneumothorax - Penetrating or blunt trauma - Barotrauma due to positive pressure ventilation - Percutaneous tracheostomy - Conversion of spontaneous pneumothorax to tension - Open pneumothorax when occlusive dressing work as one way valve Causes of pneumomediastinum - Asthma - Parturition - Emesis - Severe cough - Traumatic disruption of oropharyngeal or esophageal mucosa ## Epidemiology Primary spontaneous pneumothorax mainly occurs at 20-30 years of age. The incidence of PSP in the United States is 7 per 100,000 men and 1 per 100,000 women per year[5]. Most recurrence occurs within the first year, and incidence ranges widely from 25% to 50%. The recurrence rate is highest over the first 30 days. Secondary spontaneous pneumothorax is seen more in old-age patients 60-65 years. The incidence of SSP is 6.3 and 2 cases for men and women per 100,000 patients, respectively. The male-to-female ratio is 3:1. COPD has an incidence of 26 pneumothoraces per 100,000 patients.[6] The risk of spontaneous pneumothorax in heavy smokers is 102 times higher than in non-smokers. The leading cause of iatrogenic pneumothorax is transthoracic needle aspiration (usually for biopsies), and the second leading cause is central venous catheterization. These occur more frequently than spontaneous pneumothorax, and their number increases as intensive care modalities advance. The incidence of iatrogenic pneumothorax is 5 per 10,000 admissions in the hospital. The incidence of tension pneumothorax is challenging to determine as one-third of cases in trauma centers have decompressive needle thoracostomies before reaching the hospital, and not all of these had tension pneumothorax. Pneumomediastinum has an incidence of 1 case per