pneumothorax in the past is essential as recurrence is seen in 15-40% of cases. Recurrence on the contralateral side can also occur. On examination, the following findings are noted - Respiratory discomfort - Increased respiratory rate - Asymmetrical lung expansion - Decreased tactile fremitus - Hyperresonant percussion note - Decreased intensity of breath sounds or absent breath sounds In tension pneumothorax following additional findings are seen - Tachycardia of more than 134 beats per minute - Hypotension - Jugular venous distension - Cyanosis - Respiratory failure - Cardiac arrest Some traumatic pneumothoraces are associated with subcutaneous emphysema. Pneumothorax may be difficult to diagnose from a physical exam, especially in a noisy trauma bay. However, it is essential to make the diagnosis of tension pneumothorax on a physical exam. ## Evaluation Chest radiography, ultrasonography, or CT can be used for diagnosis, although diagnosis from a chest x-ray is more common. Radiographic findings of 2.5 cm air space are equivalent to a 30% pneumothorax. Occult pneumothoraces may be diagnosed by CT but are usually clinically insignificant. The extended focused abdominal sonography for trauma (E-FAST) exam has been a more recent diagnostic tool for pneumothorax. The absence usually makes the diagnosis of ultrasound of lung sliding, the absence of a comet-tails artifact, and the presence of a lung point. Unfortunately, this diagnostic method is very operator dependent and sensitivity, and specificity can vary. In skilled hands, ultrasonography has up to a 94% sensitivity and 100% specificity (better than chest x-ray). If a patient is hemodynamically unstable with suspected tension pneumothorax, intervention is not withheld to await imaging (see **Image.** Portable Chest Radiograph, Left Deep Sulcus Pneumothorax). Needle decompression can be performed if the patient is hemodynamically unstable with a convincing history and physical exam, indicating tension pneumothorax.[7][8][9][10][11] ## Treatment / Management Management depends on the clinical scenario. For patients with associated symptoms and showing signs of instability, needle decompression is the treatment of a pneumothorax. This usually is performed with a 14- to 16-gauge and 4.5 cm in length angiocatheter, just superior to the rib in the second intercostal space in the midclavicular line. After needle decompression or stable pneumothoraces, the treatment is inserting a thoracostomy tube. This usually is placed above the rib in the fifth intercostal space anterior to the midaxillary line. The size of the thoracostomy tube usually ranges depending on the patient's height and weight and whether there is