in response to steroid therapy in 575 patients compared to 49% with antiepileptic drugs and 68% from benzodiazepines.[28] The subgroup of patients with ESES and structural brain pathology, such as perinatal infarction or cortical malformation, may benefit from epilepsy surgery. Different surgical procedures (eg, multiple subpial transections, focal lesionectomies, and hemispherectomies) have mainly been used in patients with structural brain pathology. Children with unilateral brain pathology were frequently seizure-free after hemispherectomy or focal resection, with the disappearance of the EEG pattern and improvement in cognitive status.[29] However, more studies are needed to assess long-term neurocognitive status and determine the role of surgery. The ketogenic diet and intravenous immunoglobulin infusions have been studied in small numbers of patients, and no specific recommendations are possible regarding their efficacy. ## Differential Diagnosis Patients with Landau-Kleffner syndrome develop less frequent seizures and severe regression of language development (auditory agnosia) rather than the more global regression noted with ESES.[30] The EEG pattern in Landau-Kleffner syndrome is typically unilateral or lateralized.[31] Children with benign pediatric focal epileptic syndromes—benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes and late-onset childhood occipital epilepsy, Gastaut type—can present with relatively easy-to-control seizures and milder neuropsychological deficits. The EEG of these patients shows potentiation of the epileptiform activities during sleep but is much less prominent compared with near-continuous spike-wave abnormalities of ESES.[32] During acute stages of ESES, children may experience intractable atonic and absence seizures, closely mimicking Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. However, the tonic seizures of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome are typically absent in patients with ESES.[33] ## Prognosis Clinical seizures and EEG abnormalities spontaneously improve after puberty, with only a partial reversal of cognitive deterioration.[34] A longer duration of ESES may be associated with a poor outcome regarding cognitive impairment; EEG may continue to show focal or multifocal interictal abnormalities. ## Complications Inadequate treatment and delayed diagnosis may lead to a worse cognitive outcome in patients with ESES.[34] ## Deterrence and Patient Education Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), particularly levetiracetam, clobazam, and ethosuximide, can be used early after diagnosis. A few specific AEDs such as phenytoin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and oxcarbazepine are relatively contraindicated and should be discontinued. If there is no improvement in the EEG or cognition after 3 months of AED therapy, a corticosteroid regimen should merit consideration after carefully reviewing potential adverse events.[35] Polytherapy has been noted as effective in most patients. A select subgroup of patients with structural brain lesions may need evaluation for epilepsy surgery.