intubation and intravenous (IV) medication administration.[17] ## Complications Numerous complications can occur during a cardiac arrest. Although not common, the most detrimental complication for a patient in a shockable rhythm is AED failure. Other complications include inability to obtain IV/IO access. After ROSC, failing to secure and/ or maintain a definitive airway device could lead to a secondary cardiac arrest. During a traumatic etiology, malposition of needle thoracotomy or pericardiocentesis will also lead to complications. ## Postoperative and Rehabilitation Care If ROSC is obtained, the determination to provide targeted temperature management will be made. Candidates for targeted temperature management include those who have a medical etiology, are unresponsive and are stable. Targeted temperature management has shown to improve mortality and neurological outcomes in patients who have survived a medical cardiac arrest.[18] After stabilized from their cardiac event, the patient’s respiratory status is assessed. If the patient is unable to be successfully extubated, a tracheostomy can be placed to maintain a patent airway. To gain nutrition, a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube is commonly placed. Patients who require a tracheostomy and PEG tube placement will usually have a prolonged recovery time. These individuals are placed in long-term acute care (LTAC) facilities for care and rehabilitation. Patients who are successfully extubated will still endure a prolonged recovery; however, they are usually more functional. ## Consultations If a cardiac arrest is due to traumatic etiology, trauma surgery is usually consulted to aid with resuscitation, including resuscitative thoracotomy. If ROSC is obtained after a medical cardiac arrest, the emergency room physician will call upon the intensive care team to take care of the patient. If the medical cardiac arrest is deemed secondary to a primary cardiac etiology, cardiology should be consulted to see what intervention is appropriate. ## Deterrence and Patient Education Most cardiac arrests occur in an out-of-hospital setting. Since immediate CPR and utilization of the AED are the 2 main interventions shown to aid in patient outcome,[19][20] one can see why training laypersons with adequate CPR skills can be life-saving. Despite training, there continues to be a hesitancy to initiate lay rescuer CPR.[21] This could be due to a lack of cardiac arrest recognition, lack of encouragement, or lack of confidence. The patient may also be unreachable or unmovable by the lay rescuer, hindering from optimal performance. ## Pearls and Other Issues In hopes to potentially delay cardiac arrest within the general