disease is the second most common cause of syncope, with arrhythmias being far more common than structural diseases. Ventricular tachycardia alone is responsible for 11% of syncopal events. Cardiovascular syncope overall is far more prevalent in the elderly population than the younger population, with 10% to 30% of syncopal events in patients over 60 having a cardiac origin. Cardiovascular syncope is also more common in men than in women.[6] Structural cardiac diseases are more prevalent among patients with comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and patients who smoke. Pre-excitation syndromes tend to be more common among women than men.[7] Brugada syndrome is more common among males and people of Southeast Asian descent.[3] ## Pathophysiology All cases of cardiac syncope have the same general mechanism. When the heart fails to generate adequate cardiac output, the brain is inadequately perfused and temporarily malfunctions, leading to the syncopal event. Bradyarrhythmias lead to this final pathway because the heart is too slow to generate enough flow. Tachyarrhythmias force the heart to pump so fast that it lacks an adequate diastolic phase, leading to ineffective ventricular filling and reduced cardiac output.\*\*\*\* Mechanical obstructions to blood flow and cardiac output will have similar effects but through multiple possible mechanisms. A chronic obstruction to forward blood flow out of the heart will lead to an increase in ventricular size and pressure. The increase in size leads to ventricular myocyte irritability, which can potentially induce arrhythmias. The increase in pressure can stimulate mechanoreceptors and induce a vagal response and secondary hypotension and bradycardia. This is in addition to the primary structural problem of the impeded forward blood flow. Obstructive pathologies, such as aortic stenosis, tumors, tamponade, and congenital hypertrophic cardiomyopathy can all follow this pathway, as can myocardial infarction and ischemia. Infarcted or ischemic ventricular tissue will have impaired contractility. Infarction of valves or chordae tendineae can lead to valve rupture, resulting in subsequent mechanical obstruction to forward flow or induction of retrograde blood flow. When cardiac tissue damage is present along with the conduction system, conduction blocks and other arrhythmias can result. Aortic dissection can induce myocardial infarction when the dissection extends into the coronaries supplying vital portions of the myocardium. A leaking or ruptured aortic dissection can also diminish cardiac output through induction of hypovolemia or tamponade (if aortic contents extend into the pericardium). Pulmonary hypertension and pulmonary emboli will lead to a blockade of flow