MRI are also useful modalities in identifying structural cardiac pathologies, such as pulmonary emboli, cardiac masses, congenital heart disease, sarcoidosis, and arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy.[14][15] If cardiac syncope is not secondary to a mechanical problem and no arrhythmia is detected on initial EKG, stress testing and longer-term rhythm monitoring can be effective in catching the diagnosis. In cases of exertional syncope, exercise stress testing will often reveal the diagnosis.[16] When symptoms are recurrent and frequent, a Holter monitor is recommended. If syncopal or pre-syncopal symptoms are recurrent but not frequent enough to be noted on the Holter monitor, an external loop recorder or implanted cardiac monitor can be used to generate a diagnosis.[10] The electrophysiologic study is another method that has been utilized to identify cases of cardiac syncope. This study involves the placement of catheter tips at multiple locations within the heart. Testing begins at the SA node and progresses throughout the remainder of the heart. During the study, the heart is paced. An electric current is injected into various nonconducting endocardium regions and along the conduction pathway to attempt to reproduce an arrhythmia. Slow and/or fast pacing and proarrhythmic drugs may also be utilized for this purpose. When an arrhythmia occurs, this study allows the electrophysiologist to find the exact source of the irregular electrical activity and allows for any misfiring cells' ablation. This procedure can thus be both diagnostic and therapeutic. Theoretically, this sounds like an excellent test. However, in practice, this test has poor sensitivity and specificity. It is only recommended in patients with concurrent ischemic heart disease who would not otherwise receive an implanted cardiac defibrillator or other high-risk patients in whom no other tests could reveal a diagnosis. Electrophysiologic studies are only considered diagnostic if they induce sinus bradycardia with a prolonged sinus node recovery time of more than 525 milliseconds, a bundle branch block with tachycardia or a His-Purkinje block (second or third degree), sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia in a patient with preexisting cardiac infarction, or recurrent symptoms in the setting of rapid supraventricular tachycardia.[17] ## Treatment / Management Treatment for cardiac syncope is offered to prevent the patient's morbidity, physical injuries, and monetary costs of recurrent syncopal events and prevent sudden cardiac death. The management of cardiac syncope varies widely and is essentially based on managing the specific condition which precipitated the syncopal event. The following is a general summary of management