findings include ST-segment depression, QT interval prolongation, T wave inversion, and abnormal Q waves.[4][11][9][12] The absence of electrocardiogram changes is known to be specific for mid-ventricular Takotsubo cardiomyopathy. Cardiac enzymes are above the reference range in the majority of patients with mid-ventricular Takotsubo cardiomyopathy and other types of Takotsubo Cardiomyopathy. In the International Takotsubo Registry, the average initial troponin was approximately eight times the upper limit of normal in patients with Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, including mid-ventricular Takotsubo cardiomyopathy.[4] In a case, a seventy-seven-year-old female presented to the hospital with symptoms of chest pain. Her electrocardiogram changes were concerning of ischemia in the anterolateral wall. Her troponin-I was elevated and peaked at 0.11. The patient underwent a left heart catheterization, which showed normal coronaries, and a transthoracic echocardiogram showed akinesis to dyskinesis of the mid-anteroseptum, mid-inferoseptum, mid-inferior wall, mid-anterior wall, and the mid-anterolateral wall. This pattern is consistent with mid-ventricular takotsubo cardiomyopathy. ## Treatment / Management This type of Takotsubo cardiomyopathy is a transient disorder that is managed conservatively with supportive therapy. A provider should first focus on eliminating the physical and emotional stressors, which might help subside the patient's symptoms. However, a specific subset of these patients might develop acute decompensated congestive heart failure, and subsequently, cardiogenic shock. The treatment of such patients is based on heart failure and shock management guidelines. It is essential to delineate left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction in these patients as it is imperative to prevent volume depletion and vasodilator therapy. Therefore an urgent transthoracic echocardiogram in patients who are in cardiogenic shock and suspected to have LVOT obstruction is essential in the early management of these patients. Patients with mid-ventricular Takotsubo cardiomyopathy are also at risk of developing an intraventricular thrombus in the setting of severe left ventricular dysfunction. Approximately 1% to 1.5% of patients with all types of stress cardiomyopathy, including mid-ventricular cardiomyopathy in the International Takotsubo Registry Study, were found to have an LV thrombus. In the management of patients with LV thrombus, the use of warfarin is recommended for three months; however, the duration of systemic anticoagulation can be modified based on the rate at which the LV dysfunction improves, and the thrombus resolves.[4] ## Differential Diagnosis Patients suspected of having mid-ventricular Takotsubo cardiomyopathy should have acute coronary syndrome ruled out with coronary angiography to ensure that there is not significant coronary artery disease in the territory of the affected walls