Traumatic hematoma - Orchitis ## Prognosis Over the years, there has been a marked improvement in the salvage of the testes following torsion. However, poor results still occur, especially in African Americans, young patients, and those who lack health insurance. The best results are obtained if the surgery is done within 8 hours of symptoms. However, recurrence can also occur after orchiopexy. ## Complications - Loss of testis - Infection - Infertility - Cosmetic deformity - Loss or diminished exocrine and endocrine function in men ## Pearls and Other Issues Ultrasound is a sensitive and specific test for the evaluation of testicular torsion. Early urology involvement is crucial to avoid testicular loss. The use of color flow is essential in the evaluation of testicular torsion. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Testicular torsion is a surgical emergency that almost always presents to the emergency department. The disorder is usually managed by an interprofessional team. The first person to encounter the patient is the triage nurse, who must be familiar with the symptoms of the disorder. Time is of the essence, and the nurse should be aware of torsion, quickly admit the patient, and quickly notify the ED physician. The ED physician should consult with a radiologist for the appropriate test and, at the same time, consult with the urologist. The nurses should prepare the patient as if he will be going for surgery by keeping the child NPO and having all the blood work completed. If the testing confirms torsion, the urologist is usually required to perform the surgery. The nurse should educate the family and the patient about the potential complications, including loss of the testis and infertility. The nurse should ensure that the patient is administered no food or drink by mouth and have the patient prepared to go for urgent surgery. More importantly, the nurse should avoid giving any pain medications until the patient has been seen by the urologist- or the pain medication will mask the symptoms and delay the diagnosis. Only through a systemic approach to diagnosis and treatment, is the salvage of the testis possible.[9][10] Open communication between the team members is vital if the outcomes are to be improved. [Level 5] **Outcomes** The outcomes of testicular torsion depend on when the patient presents to the ED and how quickly the diagnosis is made and treatment is undertaken. Delays in diagnosis and treatment always lead