unaffected testicle to gain a sense of what normal vascular flow looks like in this particular patient. Power Doppler is useful in the evaluation of testicular vascular flow as well. Power Doppler has greater sensitivity for vascular flow but does not allow the examiner to discern between arterial and venous flow. Doppler can be employed to evaluate for both venous and arterial flow by placing the Doppler gate on areas of vascular flow and evaluating for both venous and arterial Doppler waveforms. Arterial waveforms will have large spikes due to the peaks of arterial blood pressure, whereas venous waveforms typically appear as plateaus of Doppler flow. Applying Doppler and checking for both venous and arterial flow can further demonstrate the severity of the torsion. The same technique will be employed on the affected testicle. Assessment for pyuria with urine analysis is typically part of the acute scrotal pain workup. The presence of pyuria is consistent with epididymitis, orchitis, or urinary tract infection but does not rule out the possibility of testicular torsion. [5][6] ## Treatment / Management Ultrasound is not a perfect test for testicular torsion, especially in the very young. For example, 40% of neonatal testicles may have no apparent color flow Doppler. If the clinical concern is high, seek urologic surgery consultation immediately. Any delay in treatment could result in testicular necrosis and loss. The typical window of opportunity for surgical intervention and testicular salvage is 6 hours from the onset of pain. Therefore, early urologic surgery consultation upon presentation may be critical even in the absence of confirmatory testing. Manual detorsion should be attempted if urological intervention is not immediately available. The abnormal testicle should be rotated in a medial to lateral direction (open book) 180 degrees and then evaluated for pain relief. If the pain is increased, consider rotating the testicle in the opposite direction. Ultrasound can also be used serially to evaluate for return of blood flow at the bedside. If unsuccessful, further manual detorsion may be attempted as the testicle can twist 180 degrees.[4][7][8] In neonates, bilateral scrotal exploration is done. Contralateral orchiopexy is always done to prevent future torsion. Patients who require an orchiectomy for a non-viable testis usually have a testicular prosthesis inserted. The prosthesis is usually inserted 4-6 months after the initial surgery to allow for the inflammation to subside ## Differential Diagnosis - Testis tumor - Epididymitis - Hydrocele -