lung parenchyma is normally not visualized directly with ultrasonographic evaluation. However, artifacts may be noted in some pathologies giving pathognomonic clues to them. In the case of acute alveolar interstitial syndromes in which there is impaired gas exchange due to a pathologic fluid within the pulmonary interstitium and alveolar space, a vertical, hyperechoic, ring down artifact will be noted. It extends to the bottom of the screen, and moves with respiratory effort, appearing as if a flashlight or multiple flashlights were being swung back and forth. These artifacts, known as B lines or "lung rockets" are secondary to the reverberation of ultrasonographic waves due to the fluid within the interlobular septae. B lines are diagnostic of pulmonary edemata, such as occur in congestive heart failure and will be noted before fluid accumulation in the alveolar spaces. Evaluation for B lines is performed using the phased array or curvilinear probes, evaluating multiple regions of bilateral lung fields, with diagnosis generally including at least 3 or more B lines noted on an exam in at least 2 fields. Thoracic ultrasound diagnosis of pulmonary edema has been shown to precede chest radiographic abnormalities and has a sensitivity and specificity of 97% and 95% respectively. Additional evaluation with cardiac ultrasound can additionally be used to diagnose ejection fraction in cardiogenic pulmonary edema (see cardiac ultrasound section), as can ultrasonographic evaluation of the IVC during respiration. The number of B lines present corresponds to the severity of the pulmonary edema present and correlates with the degree of improvement after treatment. Focal and localized B lines may also be noted in traumatic pulmonary contusion and may be utilized for early detection in trauma evaluations. Infectious etiologies of dyspnea my be also investigated using thoracic ultrasound technique, given the frequent production of purulent material transforming typically non-echogenic lung parenchyma into an echogenic medium. In the case of consolidated pneumonia, heterogeneous, hyperechoic foci with irregular borders in the subpleural parenchyma may be noted having the appearance similar to the liver and coined "hepatization" of the lung. In addition, static or dynamic air bronchograms, seen as hyperechoic foci that may move with respirations within the lung parenchyma, representing air movement within the diseased lung, may be noted, as well as associated effusions. Of note, atelectasis may appear similar to pneumonia with lung consolidation on both chest x-ray and thoracic ultrasound. Presence of static or dynamic bronchograms may allow differentiation