Although CT scanning is more sensitive and specific for rib fractures, minor traumas may not always require such radiation exposure. In addition, rib fractures, with the possible exception of flail chest, rarely requires emergent treatment prior to patient stabilization. In such cases, POCUS is ideal for evaluation. The linear probe is placed over the maximal point of tenderness or pain, and scanned, looking for areas of discontinuity along the anterior rib cortex. Normally, the anterior rib cortex should appear hyperechoic with posterior shadowing obscuring the posterior cortex. Fracture discontinuity is more obvious with displacement, and even occult fractures may be suspected if there is surrounding hematoma present. Of note, sternal and clavicular fractures can also be noted on POCUS with this same technique, although incomplete sternal fusion in children may give false positive results when looking from injuries. Disruptions in the normal visceral-parietal pleural interface via the introduction of air or fluid, are also key uses for thoracic ultrasonography. Under normal conditions, the parietal and visceral pleura are visualized as a single hyperechoic line known as the "pleural line." It is approximately 1 cm distal to the ribs. Acoustic impedance due to the underlying lung produces an echo artifact known as A lines, which are characteristically hyperechoic, regularly spaced horizontal lines below the pleural line. There are also Z lines which are short, broad, ill-defined vertical comet tail artifacts arising from the pleural line but do not extend to the edge of the screen. Lung sliding may also be noted as the parietal and visceral pleura slide over each other and are visualized via ultrasound as a "shimmering" back and forth movement appearance of the pleural line and associated artifacts. Introduction of free air into the intrapleural space, as in the case of pneumothorax, disrupts the visualization of the lung sliding, and the pleural line appears static rather than dynamic. The loss of lung sliding is sensitive, but not specific for pneumothorax, as pleural adhesions, history of pleurodesis, atelectasis, mainstem intubation, apnea, and COPD can all give similar appearances. However, the "lung point" sign has been shown to be the most specific for pneumothorax. Lung point can be observed when the transducer is over the boundary between the aerated lung and the initiation of the pneumothorax, in which lung sliding will move in and out of view with the normal respiratory cycle. This may not be seen in the complete