stress and transesophageal echocardiography. Some of the common contraindications to stress echocardiography include acute myocardial infarction within two days, severe symptomatic aortic stenosis, heart failure exacerbation, acute pericarditis, uncontrolled arrhythmias, hypertension (more than 200/110 mmHg), and unstable angina not stabilized medically.[10] Contraindications to transesophageal echocardiography include esophageal disease with strictures, tumors, acute gastrointestinal bleeding, and diverticula.[19] Further relative contraindications include hiatal hernias, facial or airway trauma, or chest radiation. Procedures with relative contraindications can be done when a full list of risks and benefits have been thoroughly discussed and agreed upon with the patient. Invasive imaging techniques have the same contraindications as the procedures needed to perform them, including cardiac catheterization. ## Equipment The equipment needed for transthoracic echocardiography includes an ultrasound machine with Doppler capabilities, a cardiac ultrasound probe, and an ultrasound gel. When undergoing stress echocardiography, ECG monitoring is required, and medications needed to increase heart rate, including, but not limited to, dobutamine, atropine, adenosine, and regadenoson. Finally, those undergoing transesophageal echocardiography will need possible tracheal intubation and sedation, with potential paralytic agents prior to the procedure.[11] These procedures are usually performed in an operating room, endoscopy suite, or catheterization laboratory under close monitoring by a cardiologist and/or anesthesiologist. ## Personnel When performing a transthoracic echocardiogram, a trained cardiovascular technician/sonographer is necessary. In the United States, an individual needs at least an associate's degree to become a cardiovascular sonographer.[20] After the adequate images have been obtained, a trained cardiologist is needed to read the echocardiography images. During transesophageal echocardiography, an anesthesiologist or CRNA is necessary to perform sedation and endotracheal intubation prior to the procedure if necessary, as well as a cardiologist must be present to oversee the procedure and guarantee adequate images are obtained. When obtaining invasive imaging, an interventional cardiologist must be present because vessel access must be obtained, as well as a catheter must be advanced into the heart. However, within the emergency department and intensive care units, intensivists and emergency medicine physicians who are credentialed in bedside echocardiography are able to utilize echocardiography and interpret the results in the acute setting and administer appropriate measures. ## Preparation Transthoracic echocardiography needs minimal preparations; however, this includes removing clothing over the chest and potentially cardiac monitoring stickers, and the patient should lay in a decubitus position on their left side. It is important to keep patients modest and covered when possible. Preparations for transesophageal echocardiography are