their associated valves, which include the mitral valve, tricuspid, and aortic valve.[6] The parasternal short axis view is obtained by positioning the probe 90 degrees from the long axis view. The short axis will obtain a cross-section of the left ventricle, which is useful in assessing left ventricular wall function, as well as it's associated papillary muscles; additionally, a cross-section of the right ventricle can also be visualized.[6] The apical four-chamber view is obtained by positioning the probe by the left nipple in males, and beneath the left breast in females, the probe is directed cephalad towards the heart and right shoulder. Using this view, one is able to better compare the ventricles and to look for evidence of right heart strain that one would have from a large pulmonary embolism.[7] The subxiphoid view will obtain views of all heart chambers, the left lobe of the liver, and the inferior vena cava (IVC) as it enters the right atrium. Compressibility of the IVC has been used to assess the fluid status of patients, but in fact, only gives information about preload. If easily compressible (greater than 50% collapse), the patient may have low preload, and if not easily compressible, the patient has a high preload. IVC compressibility has been studied with variable recommendations; therefore, it should be used in conjunction with other modes of volume assessment, not as a lone marker. ## Indications The indications for the use of transthoracic echocardiography is vast, and the basis of using this test is known or suspected cardiac disease. The Journal of the American Society of Echocardiography has published appropriate use criteria in 2019, which covers the criteria in its entirety.[8] The use of echocardiography in asymptomatic patients includes screening patients who have first degree relatives with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), aortic aneurysms or dissections, and those athletes that have electrocardiographic (ECG) changes. These patients may not have any immediate complaints, but their strong family history should give the clinician a high pretest probability to order an Echocardiogram. For example, patients with HCM may have a family history of sudden cardiac death in 1st-degree relatives at a young age. Second, the initial evaluation of patients with clinical signs of or symptoms of heart disease. This includes palpitations, syncope, pre-syncope, newly diagnosed bundle branch blocks, arrhythmias, ACS, exertional shortness of breath, and evaluation of pulmonary hypertension. Third, follow-up on previously diagnosed heart failure or valvular