and improve the optimal size of lesion formation during ablation, and thus, leading to improved success rates. However, the use of ICE during left-atrial appendage (LAA) closure was evaluated in the ICE-CHIP trial, and the study found the use of ICE form the right atrium, was inadequate at identifying a thrombus in the LAA.[26] Further advances in ICE are needed for LAA visualization, and at this time, TEE is more sensitive at identifying a thrombus in the LAA when compared to ICE. Intravascular Ultrasound (IVUS): The mainstay of treatment for coronary artery disease is cardiac catheterization when appropriate, and most commonly, it is performed under the guidance of angiography. Contrast is introduced into the cardiac vasculature while radiography is performed, allowing the visualization of coronary anatomy. This is also the technique interventional cardiologists utilize to guide their wire and assess stenosis. When stenosis is \<40%, no intervention is generally required, but with a greater than 70% stenosis, a percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is performed.[28] However, if lesions are in the indeterminate range, 40% to 70% stenosis, further imaging, such as IVUS, is required to better assess the lesion and guide intervention.[13] The blood flow and pressure is measured proximal and distal to the lesion, and the flow and pressure differential is calculated across the area of stenosis. If the lesion is causing significant flow defects, coronary stenting is likely to be performed. This utilization is called Fractional flow reserve (FFR), and Instantaneous wave-free Ratio (IFR), which is discussed in much greater detail in it's associated StatPearls.[28] Strain rate (STR) Echocardiography: TTE is able to detect wall motion abnormalities in those with ischemic or non-ischemic cardiomyopathy; however, when these abnormalities are sub-clinical, STR echocardiography is a more sensitive utility. Early detection in asymptomatic patients is an important use of STR echocardiography, especially in those with diabetes, amyloidosis, and muscular dystrophies.[15] Furthermore, it has been shown that STR imaging is sensitive enough to detect early cardiac injury secondary to doxorubicin-based chemotherapy.[15] Dandel et al. described the utility of differentiating between an athlete's physiological hypertrophy and asymptomatic HCM. This utility is important as HCM is known to cause sudden cardiac death in young athletes. A study from Belgium also described that the use of STR echocardiography was the superior method in identifying cardiac tissue changes and fibrosis in patients with HCM.[29] Another important utility is the assessment of cardiac viability. The augmentation of