- Hydrocephalus - Malignant cerebral edema - Neurogenic pulmonary edema [70] - Neurovascular injuries - Paroxysmal sympathetic hyperactivity [71] - Pneumocephalus [72] - Seizures - Spasticity [73] - Stunned myocardium syndrome [74] - Substance use disorder - Vasospasm [75] ## Deterrence and Patient Education Prevention is critical, as most cases of traumatic brain injury are due to accidents from preventable trauma. Motor vehicle collisions, the most common cause of TBI, are not always preventable. However, some measures can be taken to decrease risk, including wearing a seatbelt, not driving while distracted or under the influence of drugs or alcohol, and using appropriate booster seats for children based on age. Bicyclists and motorcyclists should be encouraged to wear helmets. There is active research on recurrent traumatic brain injuries in sports. In a patient who has already experienced brain trauma, it is important to not return to activities until they have improved. Recurrent brain trauma may put patients at risk of lifelong symptoms, and there may be cumulative and permanent effects. In patients who have already experienced an injury, posttrauma recovery is a challenging process of physical, mental, and emotional recovery. Neurologic and psychiatric complications are common. Suicide prevention in patients who have experienced brain trauma is also important, and patients should always be encouraged to seek help. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes An interprofessional team is crucial to successful treatment and rehabilitation of patients who have experienced traumatic brain injuries. Case managers or social workers can provide information regarding resources, coordinate appointments, assist with discharge planning, and work with insurance so that the patient may receive the care they need. Occupational therapists help in improving functional status and focus on activities of daily living, which may suffer severe limitations due to traumatic brain injuries; they may recommend alterations to the home to improve functional capacity. Physical therapists may recover strength, endurance, and coordination; they may also recommend using assistive devices and provide training on how to use them. Speech-language pathologists may evaluate and treat communication and swallowing difficulties. The nursing staff is vital at every stage, from providing intensive monitoring and total medical care in an acute setting to educating patients in the longer term. Physiatrists may oversee the rehabilitation team and determine if a patient is appropriate for intensive rehabilitation programs. Primary care providers are essential in long-term follow-up and coordinating care in patients with brain trauma. Neurologists diagnose and