exam, a thorough neurologic exam, including assessment of cranial nerves, strength, sensation, reflexes, and clonus, should follow. Gait testing should be performed in patients not suspected of cervical spine injury, though most patients with a severe head injury will require cervical spine immobilization until cervical injury is clinically and radiologically ruled out. In patients who are following up after brain trauma, further neuropsychiatric testing may be necessary in those persistent symptoms. ## Evaluation Laboratory studies may be indicated in the acute evaluation of patients with TBI. The decision to obtain any laboratory studies will depend on the severity of the injury or associated polytrauma and the medical history of the patient. For example, a simple head injury following a ground-level fall with a resultant head contusion and no other trauma may only require imaging and no labs, whereas a head injury following an MVC in a patient with multiple other traumatic injuries who is also on an anticoagulant will likely need a full lab panel. When clinically indicated, common labs include a CBC, CMP, coagulation profile (PT and PTT), and a type and screen. The initial imaging study of choice is a CT scan of the brain without contrast, as it is often readily available in just about any hospital setting and is rapidly obtainable. Skull X-rays are not recommended unless assessing foreign bodies, gunshots, or stab wounds due to their poor diagnostic value. MRI can be helpful but takes much longer to obtain than a head CT. MRI may be indicated in follow-up for head injuries but is not used as the initial evaluation. A CT scan of the brain is advocated for patients with moderate to severe head injury as this helps rule out or diagnose the majority of intracranial emergencies like subdural, epidural, intraparenchymal, and subarachnoid hemorrhages. Those suffering from DAI may have normal initial CT scans, but some may reveal small punctate hemorrhages to white matter tracts. MRI imaging is best used to help diagnose DAI, especially diffuse tensor imaging (DTI) and gradient-recalled echo (GRD) MRI.[30] For adults with mild head injury (mild TBI) and are at low risk for intracranial injuries, there are two commonly used and externally validated scoring algorithms that help guide when to obtain a head CT scan after a head injury.[31][32][33][34][35] These are the New Orleans Criteria (NOC) and Canadian CT Head Injury/Trauma Rules (CCHR). For patients with minor head trauma