exercise stress testing.[15] This protocol is divided into successive 3-minute stages, each requiring the patient to walk faster and at a steeper grade. The testing protocol could be adjusted to a patient's tolerance, aiming for 6 to 12 minutes of exercise duration. There is a modified Bruce protocol for those who cannot exercise vigorously, adding two lower workload stages to the beginning of the standard Bruce protocol, both of which require less effort than stage 1. There are a number of other protocols for patients with a limited exercise tolerance; however, other methods that do not include exercise are also available for such patients. During the exercise test, data about heart rate, blood pressure, and ECG changes should be obtained at the end of each stage. At any time, an abnormality is detected with cardiac monitoring. Heart rate and systolic blood pressure should rise with each stage of exercise until a peak is achieved. Patients should be questioned about any symptoms they experience during exercise. All patients should be monitored closely during recovery until heart rate and ECG are back to baseline, as arrhythmias and ECG changes can still develop. It is unnecessary to stop exercise at the onset of mild symptoms if no abnormalities are noted on ECG and the patient is hemodynamically stable. The American College of Cardiology (ACC)/American Heart Association (AHA) guidelines have specified indications for the termination of exercise testing. The following are the absolute indications for termination of testing: - A drop in systolic blood pressure of greater than 10 mmHg from baseline when accompanied by other indications of ischemia. - Moderate-to-severe angina - Increasing neurologic symptoms, such as ataxia, dizziness, near-syncope - Signs of impaired perfusion, such as cyanosis or pallor - Technical difficulties in monitoring ECG tracings or systolic blood pressure - Patient's desire to stop - Sustained ventricular tachycardia - ST-elevation of more than 1 mm in leads without diagnostic Q waves, other than V or aVR[16] Relative indications for the termination of the procedure include the following: - A drop in systolic blood pressure of 10 mmHg or more from baseline in the absence of other evidence of ischemia - ST or QRS changes (excessive horizontal or downsloping ST depression of more than 2 mm) or marked axis shift - Arrhythmias, such as supraventricular tachycardia, multifocal premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), heart block, or bradyarrhythmias - Fatigue, shortness of breath, leg cramps,