wheezing, or claudication - Development of intraventricular conduction delay or bundle branch block that cannot be differentiated from ventricular tachycardia - Increasing chest pain - Hypertensive response (systolic blood pressure of 250 mmHg, diastolic blood pressure higher than 115 mmHg, or both)[17] At the conclusion of testing, a report should be included. This report should outline the baseline ECG interpretation, baseline heart rate, and blood pressure, ECG changes during exercise, including the presence of arrhythmia/ectopy and the onset of such changes, maximal heart rate and blood pressure during exercise, estimated exercise capacity in metabolic equivalents of task (METs), exercise duration and stage completed, symptoms experienced during exercise and the reason for terminating the test. A normal test is when a patient's blood pressure and heart rate increase appropriately to graded exercise. There should be no ECG changes suggestive of ischemia and no arrhythmias during testing. Failure of the blood pressure to increase or decrease with signs of ischemia has prognostic significance. Angina or significant ST depression (greater than 2 mm) before completing stage 2 of the Bruce protocol and/or ST depressions that persist for more than 5 minutes into recovery suggest severe ischemia and high risk for coronary events. Exercise testing will either be positive, negative, equivocal, or uninterpretable if there is a limiting factor such as heart rate. A Duke treadmill score (DTS) is a validated scoring system that can assist with the risk assessment of a patient who has undergone an exercise stress test.[18] The DTS was developed to provide accurate diagnostic and prognostic information for evaluating patients with suspected coronary artery disease. The DTS uses three parameters: exercise time, ST-segment deviation (depression or elevation), and exertional angina to determine if patients are at a low, intermediate, or high risk for ischemic heart disease. The typical range is from +15 to -25. If a patient's score is greater than or equal to 5, they are considered low risk, while those who score less than or equal to -11 are considered high risk. This scoring system predicts 5-year mortality, where low-risk scores have a 5-year survival of 97%, intermediate-risk scores have a 5-year survival of 90%, and high-risk scores indicate a 5-year survival of about 65%. Patients with an intermediate risk assessment should generally be referred for additional risk stratification with an imaging modality.[7][19][20] ## Complications A treadmill stress test is generally considered safe, and its complications are rare.