arbitrarily defined by the elevation of cTn values >5 times the 99th percentile URL in patients with normal baseline values. In patients with elevated pre-procedure cTn in whom the cTn levels are stable (≤20% variation) or falling, the post-procedure cTn must rise by >20%. However, the absolute post-procedural value must still be at least five times the 99th percentile URL. In addition, one of the following elements is required: 1. New ischemic ECG changes 1. Development of new pathological Q waves 1. Angiographic findings are consistent with a procedural flow-limiting complication such as coronary dissection, occlusion of a major epicardial artery or a side branch occlusion or thrombus, disruption of collateral flow, or distal embolization **Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting (CABG)-Related Myocardial Infarction** CABG-related MI is arbitrarily defined as an elevation of cTn values >10 times the 99th percentile URL in patients with normal baseline cTn values. In patients with elevated pre-procedure cTn in whom cTn levels are stable (≤20% variation) or falling, the post-procedure cTn must rise by >20%. However, the absolute post-procedural value still must be greater than ten times the 99th percentile URL. In addition, one of the following elements is required: 1. Development of new pathological Q waves 1. Angiographic documented new graft occlusion or new native coronary artery occlusion 1. Imaging evidence of new loss of viable myocardium or new regional wall motion abnormality in a pattern consistent with an ischemic etiology ## Clinical Significance The accurate diagnosis and treatment of cardiac events is an essential component of working in the emergency department.[16] The development and implementation of troponin testing have had a massive influence on the practice of emergency medicine.[29] It is important to recognize the drawbacks and potential flaws when using troponin testing and to keep the entire clinical picture in mind when making medical decisions.[96] Troponin testing has changed how emergency medicine is practiced, and a deep understanding of its clinical implications is critical to the success of emergency providers.[28] Elevated troponin levels should always be evaluated in a clinical context.[97] Causes of troponin elevation other than MI include the following: myocarditis, pericarditis, cardiac contusion or trauma, aortic dissection, endocarditis, cardiac surgery, pulmonary embolism, stroke (ischemic or hemorrhagic), cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), defibrillation, chronic severe heart failure, cardiac arrhythmias (tachyarrhythmias, bradyarrhythmias, heart blocks), sepsis, renal failure, hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM), takotsubo cardiomyopathy, burns, extreme exertion, post–cardiac surgery, infiltrative diseases such as amyloidosis, medications (doxorubicin,