or their peak flow rate is below 80% of their predicted value. During the preoperative evaluation, clinicians must gather information about recent asthma exacerbations, hospitalizations, and any previous endotracheal intubation or mechanical ventilation due to asthma. When reviewing systems, the patient should report any recent episodes of wheezing, chest tightness, cough, or shortness of breath. Although most patients with well-controlled asthma tolerate anesthesia without complications, patients older than 50 and those with poorly controlled disease are at increased risk.[4] In addition to a diagnosis of asthma, the following factors increase the risk of perioperative respiratory adverse events in children. Clinicians should assess these factors before administering anesthesia: - Wheezing with exercise - Wheezing more than 3 times in the last 12 months - Nocturnal dry cough - Upper respiratory tract infection within the last 2 weeks - History of hayfever - History of eczema - Second-hand smoke exposure - Family history of asthma, hay fever, or eczema - Age younger than 6 - Higher American Society of Anesthesiologists Physical Status Classification - History of congenital heart disease - Prematurity - Low birth weight - Obesity - Obstructive sleep apnea [9][10] A history of an upper respiratory tract infection within the preceding 2 weeks and an age younger than 6 are both risk factors for intraoperative airway complications in all children.[11] Patients with asthma may require prophylactic or abortive medications, including inhaled ß2-agonists, such as albuterol; inhaled corticosteroids, such as budesonide; oral leukotriene antagonists, such as montelukast; oral or intravenous (IV) corticosteroids; and IV magnesium.[12] Upon verifying that the patient is using routine asthma medications, the anesthesia provider must determine whether to administer prophylactic therapy such as inhaled ß2-agonists or systemic corticosteroids (for example, methylprednisolone) before proceeding to the operating room. Preoperative systemic steroids have shown little benefit unless started 2 to 3 days in advance of surgery. A study revealed that administering systemic corticosteroids alongside inhaled ß2-agonists for 5 days before surgery markedly decreased the incidence of bronchospasm following intubation.[13] ## Clinical Significance Asthma is a common respiratory condition among patients undergoing surgery, and proper preoperative assessment, pharmacotherapy, and safe anesthesia measures are crucial for reducing complications. Perioperative respiratory adverse events can occur at any stage of anesthesia. However, the most critical times for perioperative respiratory complications occur during the induction of general anesthesia, airway manipulation, and emergence. Complications include bronchospasm, laryngospasm, desaturation, coughing, excessive secretion production, and pneumonia. Regional