the ascending limb of the loop of Henle, which causes decreased sodium and chloride reabsorption and results in natriuresis and diuresis. Loop diuretics also increase the synthesis of prostaglandins, which cause renal and pulmonary vasodilation. This leads to a reduction in pulmonary wedge pressure.[5] This overall causes improvement of dyspnea and decreases ventricular filling pressures. Recent studies have suggested that the lack of adequate decongestion achieved by loop diuretics is more common than previously known[6]. In patients with renal insufficiency (as seen in >50% of HF patients), anions compete with receptor sites for tubular transporters, and these patients need higher diuretic doses to achieve the effect.[7] As heart failure (HF) worsens, the dose-response curve for loop diuretics shifts downwards and to the right, causing a need for higher doses of diuretics to achieve the same effect. This is one of the mechanisms that can lead to an effect known as diuretic resistance in some patients. Dose escalation beyond a previously recognized dose ceiling or dose beyond the recommended maximum daily dose suggests diuretic resistance. Long-term administration of loop diuretics can cause a mechanism known as the “braking phenomenon.” This results from extracellular volume contraction causing an overactivation of the RAAS and sympathetic responses and adaptive epithelial hypertrophy and hyperfunction in the distal nephron, resulting in reduced delivery of solute to the proximal tubule[6]. There are several strategies to overcome this diuretic resistance, one of them including ultrafiltration. Studies suggest that peripheral venovenous ultrafiltration is one of the most promising approaches in managing ADHF patients. ## Indications In patients with refractory ADHF, which is severe in nature, who do not respond to standard pharmacological treatment, including the use of IV diuretics due to mechanisms discussed above, volume overload can be reversed through the use of UF. UF has been shown to produce an overall positive nitrogen balance and may also be indicated in patients with fluid overload that need to increase their caloric intake. In patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass with evidence of excess body water, UF may be used to prevent the additional accumulation of fluid.[8][9][10][11] ## Contraindications UF is contraindicated in any patient with evidence of hemodynamic instability. It is also contraindicated in patients with acute coronary syndrome, including myocardial infarction or unstable angina. Patients with serum creatinine greater than 3.0 mg/dL should not undergo UF. UF is also contraindicated in patients with a hematocrit of over 45%. Lastly, adequate