venous access is necessary for UF; thus, if there is a contraindication for vascular access, then UF cannot be started. ## Equipment UF equipment is similar to that for hemodialysis. The apparatus used to conduct UF consists of a dialyzer, dialysate, tubing for the transport of blood and the dialysis solution, and a machine to power and mechanically monitor the procedure. Dialyzers are usually made of polyurethane with hollow fiber membranes that are suspended in the dialysate. ## Preparation There are studies evaluating the differences among methods of vascular access for ultrafiltration that are done long term and intermittently. Issues related to cost and technical difficulty should be considered when choosing the access site. Central venous access is required with a preference for internal jugular access. Access, especially long-term, for UF patients increases the risks of adverse events. An arteriovenous communication is usually used in chronic dialysis patients but is also used in UF and can be associated with an increased risk of high output HF and right ventricular HF. Peritoneal dialysis access is also an option but can cause a rare complication of peritonitis. ## Technique or Treatment Dialyzer fibers are hollow membranes that are suspended in dialysate through which blood can flow; dialysate flows in the opposite direction of blood to create a cross-current exchange. Solute clearance is usually achieved through diffusion and convection. Ultrafiltration and fluid removal occurs due to a hydrostatic pressure gradient across the dialyzer membrane (called a transmembrane pressure) created by the dialysis machine. The cell-free fluid then diffuses from a high-pressure system (blood) to a low-pressure system (dialysate). The pressure gradient is achieved by positive pressurization of the blood compartment and negative pressure via suction applied to the dialysate compartment. ## Complications Adverse events associated with UF include clotting of UF filters, transient discomfort at the venous access site, central venous catheter infection, catheter malfunction, hypotension, bleeding events, and renal injury. A very small percentage of patients had volume overload refractory to UF. Early studies suggest that UF is unsafe. A recent systematic review and meta-analysis by Siddiqui et al. concluded that UF is safe and effective in ADHF and that there were no significant adverse events in UF compared to IV diuretics. There were fewer bleeding events with UF than with standard therapy. The increased events of hypotension in UF noted in the studies were clinically insignificant. In addition, the incidence of