acute kidney injury in UF and diuretic therapy were comparable. The Cardiorenal Rescue Study in Acute Decompensated Heart Failure (CARRESS-HF) trial by Bart et al. compared the effect of UF with diuretic therapy on renal function in patients with heart failure who have persistent volume overload and renal function that is declining. The study found that, although UF is associated with a higher increase in serum creatine initially, long-term, the serum creatinine is lower when compared to patients on standard diuretic therapy.[12][13][14] ## Clinical Significance UF therapy is a mechanical modality of fluid removal. It reduces central venous pressure (CVP) without impacting circulating volume. This is accomplished by creating a hydrostatic pressure gradient that triggers a mechanical extraction of fluid across a filter which subsequently results in the separation and removal of isotonic plasma water. Studies show that it can be used effectively to reduce volume overload in patients resistant to conventional diuretic therapy. The UNLOAD (UF versus Intravenous Diuretics for Patients Hospitalized for ADHF) trial found that UF is not only an effective alternative therapy for refractory HF but also safely produces greater weight and fluid loss than intravenous diuretics and reduces 90-day HF readmissions and cumulative hospital readmissions. Three recent meta-analyses evaluating the comparative outcomes of UF versus conventional diuretic therapy in reducing volume overload in patients with ADHF found that patients that were able to tolerate UF had a significant reduction in volume overload and weight in comparison to conventional diuretics alone. UF can show great benefits for patients in ADHF refractory to standard therapy with diuretics. It also causes iso-osmotic volume loss without changing or creating any electrolyte abnormalities. In addition, it can lead to maximum sodium loss per unit of volume removal compared to IV diuretics. UF can also lead to change in the neurohormonal milieu, which may have clinical significance in heart disease, and it has also been shown to restore diuretic sensitivity. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes The use of UF to manage CHF patients is done with an interprofessional team that includes a cardiologist, nephrologist, intensivist, hemodialysis nurses, an internist, and a vascular surgeon. Ultrafiltration requires a careful assessment of the patient to determine the goal of fluid removal. Vital signs must be monitored closely and periodically. A team of extensively trained hemodialysis nurses is required. While acutely the treatment can reduce the fluid in the body, the long-term outcomes remain unknown.