## Introduction Variable and often reversible airway obstruction with bronchial hyperreactivity are hallmark characteristics of asthma.[1] Asthma affects approximately 8.4% of the United States population and 4.3% of the global population.[2][3] As the prevalence and severity of asthma continue to rise, a growing number of patients with this condition require surgical intervention, making it essential for healthcare professionals to understand best practices in anesthesia management. Patients with asthma are at an increased risk of perioperative morbidity and mortality due to bronchospasm and hypoxemia. Children are especially prone to perioperative respiratory adverse events.[4][5] Optimizing asthma symptom control in patients before elective surgery is crucial to prevent complications. In addition, a carefully planned, individualized anesthetic approach characterized by selecting bronchodilator-friendly anesthetic agents, minimizing airway stimulation, and implementing lung-protective ventilation provides safer and high-quality perioperative care.[4] Postoperative care focuses on close respiratory monitoring, continuation of preoperative asthma medications, and patient education to ensure a smooth recovery. Proper anesthetic management is vital in achieving safe and effective outcomes for patients with asthma undergoing surgery. Proper anesthetic management is essential for achieving safe and effective outcomes in patients with asthma undergoing surgery. ## Function Asthma is characterized by airway hyperresponsiveness and inflammation, with bronchial smooth muscle constriction and airway inflammation contributing to bronchospasm. Common triggers include allergens, such as medications or latex-based medical equipment; respiratory infections; smoking; cold air; exercise; stress; and physical trauma or stimulation of the airway.[6] Clinically, bronchospasm manifests as shortness of breath, wheezing, coughing, or chest tightness. However, intubated patients in the operating room cannot directly report these symptoms. Instead, clinicians must monitor for a sudden acute rise in peak inspiratory pressures, changes in end-tidal carbon dioxide, and decreasing oxygen saturation. In addition, clinicians must distinguish between bronchospasm and anaphylaxis, which presents with additional symptoms such as hypotension, flushing, rash, or angioedema.[7] ## Issues of Concern The risk of anesthesia-related complications in patients with well-controlled asthma is low. Preoperative determination of the patient's level of asthma control is the key to mitigating perioperative complications. Clinicians should ensure that asthma is well managed before elective surgery.[3][4] Obtaining a detailed history and performing a thorough cardiopulmonary physical examination are essential for this assessment. Preoperative labs, chest radiographs, and tests to assess pulmonary function have not been shown to correlate with perioperative respiratory adverse events and are rarely recommended.[8] However, spirometry may be helpful if the patient's level of asthma control is in question