acute settings, cardioselective β-blockers such as esmolol and metoprolol are safer options for patients with asthma.[[13]](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK537327/#article-17923.r13) Before patients emerge from general anesthesia, anesthesia providers reverse neuromuscular blockade. Cholinesterase inhibitors such as neostigmine must be used cautiously, as these drugs can increase bronchoconstriction by inhibiting acetylcholine breakdown. Alternatively, sugammadex, which directly binds to non-depolarizing neuromuscular blockers such as rocuronium and vecuronium, may be preferred as it does not increase the risk of bronchospasm. Although deep extubation theoretically reduces the risk of bronchospasm from the ETT, current research offers limited support for this benefit; a recent randomized controlled trial found no significant difference between awake and deep extubation regarding perioperative respiratory adverse events.[[23]](https://www.statpearls.com/keywords/adminreviewdiffs/?id=174406#ref_33121440) ## Other Issues All that wheezes is not asthma. When caring for an anesthetized patient with asthma, bronchospasm is likely to be at the top of the list of differential diagnoses for an episode of wheezing. However, the following list presents other entities to consider: - Anaphylaxis - Aspiration of stomach contents - Aspiration of a foreign body such as a tooth or piece of medical equipment - Upper airway obstruction - Mainstem intubation - An endotracheal tube on the carina - An endotracheal tube obstruction - An endotracheal tube cuff herniation - Pneumothorax - Pulmonary edema - Pulmonary thromboembolism - Drug-induced wheezing due to histamine release or anticholinesterase - Carcinoid syndrome or crisis [19] ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Asthma, marked by airway hyperresponsiveness and inflammation, can be triggered by allergens, respiratory infections, cold air, exercise, stress, and airway manipulation. Patients with asthma have an increased risk of pulmonary complications associated with anesthesia, and bronchospasm may arise at any stage of the anesthesia process, making meticulous planning essential to minimize perioperative respiratory complications. The management of bronchospasm is a critical skill set for healthcare providers in patient care throughout the healthcare environment, as it can develop rapidly in response to various stimuli. A comprehensive preoperative assessment, including pulmonary function testing, a detailed medical history, and a medication review, is vital in evaluating asthma control and optimizing the patient's condition. Patients with the highest risk of bronchospasm and laryngospasm include those who have used asthma medications, experienced symptoms, or sought care for asthma within the past year. The risk is significantly increasing for those who required treatment within the last 30 days or had an upper respiratory tract infection within the last 2 weeks. To mitigate the risk of