exam may be unremarkable; however, the patient may appear uncomfortable or anxious. He or she may be diaphoretic or clutching his or her chest. Vital signs may be normal or reveal tachycardia and tachypnea most commonly. ## Evaluation In patients presenting with angina, the value of cardiac testing is determined by the patient’s pretest, probability of ACS. Pretest probability is evaluated by considering the patient’s presentation, along with their cardiac risk factors. In patients with very high or very low pretest probability, diagnostic tests are less valuable as they are less likely to change management.[5] Initial testing includes a 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG), chest X-ray, and basic lab testing, including complete blood count (CBC), and basic metabolic profile (BMP), along with serial troponin levels if ACS is suspected. ECG may not show any abnormalities in the cases of stable angina, unstable angina, or NSTEMI. ECG findings of myocardial ischemia include T-wave flattening or inversions, or ST-segment depressions. Further testing may include exercise or pharmacologic stress testing with or without nuclear perfusion imaging and diagnostic heart catheterization. ECG changes will appear in STEMIs and prompt an immediate need for coronary revascularization. ## Treatment / Management Treatment of chronic stable angina is aimed at managing symptoms as well as slowing the progression to cardiac events. Management is multifactorial and involves lifestyle modifications, risk factor modification, and medical therapy as essential components of treatment.[6] In cases in which symptoms are refractory to medical therapy, revascularization may be attempted; however, although it may be successful in controlling symptoms, it is not shown to reduce major cardiovascular events compared with medical therapy.[7] Lifestyle modifications include regular exercise, weight control, and smoking cessation, which should be encouraged. Risk factor modification includes controlling blood pressure, cholesterol, and blood sugar. Medications for risk factor modification and to prevent disease progression include aspirin, statins, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers.[6] Medical therapy can be used to control symptoms as well as help mitigate the risk of the progression of atherosclerosis and cardiac events.[6] Antianginal agents can be separated based on the mechanism of symptom relief in angina. In general, symptomatic control is achieved by way of decreasing myocardial oxygen consumption. As heart rate is the main influencer of oxygen consumption, most anginal events are initiated by an increase in heart rate.[1] Three classes of drugs used for angina reduce symptoms by way of heart rate reduction— beta-blockers, ivabradine, and