negative prognostic indicator of mortality, likely because their use indicates more advanced disease. ## Complications As the initial symptom of CAD in many cases, the main complication of angina is a future cardiac event, such as myocardial infarction. In one study, estimates are that the 10-year risk of MI exceeded 10 percent in women with chronic stable angina starting from when they initially began to use nitrates to treat symptoms.[12] Aside from this potentially fatal complication, chronic stable angina has implications for society as well as patients. These include lower quality of life due to decreased ability to perform daily activities, as well as an increased burden to society from indirect costs, such as early retirement or disability.[1] Angina treatment should be aimed not only at improving mortality but also at treating symptoms so patients can be more active.[13] ## Deterrence and Patient Education Patients with cardiac risk factors should be monitored for symptoms of angina and receive education about alarming signs, such as symptoms occurring at rest and symptoms no longer relieved by nitrates. It is imperative to stress risk factor modification as an essential component of treatment to slow progression. So, dietary and exercise education, along with smoking cessation counseling, if applicable, is beneficial. It is important to stress compliance with medications, as well. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Recognizing the symptoms of angina is critical to making a diagnosis of CAD, but similar symptoms can present in many other conditions. The interprofessional team must recognize signs of cardiac vs. non-cardiac chest pain and understand that the etiology may not be clear based solely on the quality of pain. In specific patient populations, such as patients with diabetes, the presentation may be more inconspicuous. Understanding the patient's medical history and family history is critical to making the diagnosis. In the presence of cardiac risk factors, the clinician must have a high index of suspicion for a cardiac etiology and conduct further workup, versus when risk factors are absent. While the cardiologist is the team leader in the treatment and management of these patients, it is the primary care physician who usually completes the initial workup and makes the diagnosis in many cases. It is vital to obtain an accurate history and physical and have an open line of communication between physicians, or else the clinician may miss the diagnosis. A missed diagnosis increases morbidity and mortality for these