or cricothyroidotomy. Additional procedures such as jet insufflation may provide temporary relief. Efforts to treat the underlying cause of the obstruction should also be considered. In cases of infectious etiology, these should be treated with appropriate antibiotics and surgical drainage when indicated. In the case of obstructing masses, these may be worked up after the airway is secured, and proper surgical consultation should be obtained. In more chronic causes such as obstructive sleep apnea, diagnostic studies should be performed, and patients may require intervention while sleeping and possible surgery.[7][8] ## Differential Diagnosis The differential diagnosis of acute upper airway obstruction: - Aspiration - Infection - Hemorrhage - Angioedema - Iatrogenic (e.g., post-surgical, instrumental) - Blunt trauma - Inhalation injury - Neuromuscular disease The differential diagnosis of chronic airway obstruction: - Infection - Post-intubation - Amyloidosis - Sarcoidosis - Tumor - Collagen vascular disease - Mediastinal mass - Esophageal tumor - Cardiovascular anomaly - Neuromuscular disease - Idiopathic - Tonsillar enlargement in children ## Prognosis The prognosis of airway obstruction depends on the etiology of the condition. Generally, the prognosis of inflammatory and infectious causes is more favorable than that of malignancy. ## Complications The complications of airway obstruction are: - Respiratory failure - Arrhythmias - Cardiac arrest - Death ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Airway obstruction can occur both in the hospital and at home. Thus, all healthcare workers must know how to manage this life-threatening emergency. Because death can occur within minutes, an interprofessional team approach is necessary to save the life of the patient. All healthcare workers who look after patients should be familiar with the signs and symptoms of respiratory distress. Most hospitals now have a team of professionals who are in charge of intubation outside the operating room. In most cases, it is the nurse who first identifies the patient with respiratory distress and alerts the rest of the team. The nurse is usually the one person who knows where the equipment to manage this emergency is kept and should have it available. Once the team has arrived, the key is to establish an open airway quickly, and this may be done by removing the foreign body, performing inhalation induction, or an awake tracheostomy. Both the anesthesiologist and surgeon should be notified when a patient has an airway obstruction. The nurse anesthetist should be dedicated to the monitoring of the patient while the clinicians are attempting