symptoms (dysuria, flank pain), physical exam findings (costovertebral angle tenderness, evidence of urinary retention), radiologic features, and laboratory results showing bacteriuria and leucocyturia.[12][13] If urosepsis is suspected, the laboratory workup should include a urinalysis with a urine culture. Providers should also order a complete blood cell count, a comprehensive metabolic panel, blood cultures, and a lactate level to look for evidence of end-organ dysfunction. Post-renal obstruction is one of the most common causes of urosepsis. Ultrasound can identify 93% of common contributing causes of urosepsis, such as hydronephrosis or prostate abscess. However, the dependence on an experienced ultrasonographer and their availability often limit the utilization of ultrasound for such patients. Computed tomography (CT) imaging is rapidly available at all hours and is easily reproducible without a need for technologist expertise. This often makes CT scan the diagnostic modality of choice when urosepsis is suspected. It can also identify subtle radiographic findings not easily visualized with ultrasound.[14] ## Treatment / Management Over the last few decades, there has been an increase in multi-drug resistant organisms causing UTIs, making treatment more complicated. This is thought to stem from the overuse of antibiotics to treat suspected UTIs as confirmation is not available for 2 to 3 days until a urine culture with antimicrobial susceptibility has resulted.[15][16] Research aimed at reducing mortality from sepsis via aggressive treatment modalities, including the original Rivers trial, has shown that early goal-directed therapy (EGDT) reduces mortality from sepsis. While some of the original recommendations of EGDT have been challenged recently, these overall treatment guidelines remain: (1) Rapid initiation of empiric antibiotics that are chosen to eliminate the suspected source of infection, (2) Supportive care, including hemodynamic and pulmonary stabilization, and (3) Adjunctive therapies. When choosing antibiotics, the goal is to have these infused into the patient within one hour of a confirmed diagnosis, but they should be given only after urine and blood cultures have been collected. Each hour antibiotics are delayed after the initial six hours is associated with an 8% decrease in survival. Local susceptibility patterns guide antibiotic choice but often includes a third-generation cephalosporin, piperacillin in combination with a beta-lactamase inhibitor, or a fluoroquinolone. It is important to remember in dosing these antibiotics that many patients with severe sepsis have end-organ dysfunction, including renal and liver impairment, which might affect the clearance of antibiotics.[2] In addition to early antibiotics, there are other important parts of