the management of sepsis. Initial fluid resuscitation with crystalloid is still recommended at a minimum of 30 mL/kg. Consider early administration of vasopressor support to maintain a mean arterial pressure greater than 65 mm Hg. The first choice for vasopressor support in sepsis is norepinephrine (with epinephrine and vasopressin 2 and 3). Tight glucose control is also recommended, with corticosteroids and blood products being more controversial in the literature.[17] If the patient has a complicating factor in the urinary tract that is identified and warrants treatment, it should be performed as soon as possible (e.g., Foley catheter placement to relieve urinary retention or stent placement to bypass an obstructing ureteral calculus causing urosepsis). ## Differential Diagnosis Urosepsis, as mentioned above, includes a spectrum of urogenital tract infections, which may present differently, depending on the region and the extent of infection. It is important to probe the cause of infection, to treat them accordingly. Some of the causes are listed below: - Urinary tract infection - Cystitis - Pyelonephritis - Acute bacterial prostatitis - Prostatic abscess - Renal abscess - Urolithiasis ## Complications Urosepsis is a treatable condition. However, delayed management can lead to severe consequences, including renal failure, septic shock, and death.[18] ## Deterrence and Patient Education Patients with risk factors for UTIs should be encouraged to seek care promptly if they develop symptoms of a UTI. Patients should also be made aware of the importance of adhering to their prescribed medication regimen. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Urosepsis is best managed with an interprofessional team of health professionals that include a nephrologist, infectious disease expert, urologist, intensivist, a nurse, and a pharmacist. The key to preventing high morbidity is to prevent the condition that promotes infection. Any urological abnormality that is present needs to be corrected. The pharmacist should ensure that there is no delay in the administration of the antibiotics. The nurse should closely monitor the patient for signs of sepsis and communicate with the healthcare provider. Many of these patients require ICU care with close monitoring and frequent radiological studies. [Level 5][19][20] **Outcomes** The outcomes after urosepsis depend on the cause and severity of the infection. The prognosis also depends on the type of bacteria, antimicrobial resistance, and patient comorbidity. This is where the input of a board-certified infectious disease pharmacist can be very beneficial, helping select appropriate antimicrobial coverage, check for drug interactions, and verify all