such as aortic dissection and pulmonary embolism should be considered. The following conditions can be easily confused with VF on an ECG and should be ruled out. - Polymorphic ventricular tachycardia - Torsade de pointes - Ventricular flutter - Pulseless electrical activity - Accelerated idioventricular rhythm - SVT with aberrancy ## Staging **Types of VF on ECG** - _Coarse VF:_ Majority of the waveforms measure 3 mm or greater - _Fine VF:_ Majority of the waveforms measure less than 3 mm ## Prognosis Prognosis of VF depends on the time from onset to early intervention and defibrillation. Shorter delays are associated with survival rates as high as 50%.[14] In patients with ST-elevation MI, early VF (fewer than 24 hours) is associated with increased mortality compared to late VF (longer than 24 hours).[15] VF outside the hospital can be reversed as today there are defibrillators available in many places. But the success of reversal declines at a rate of 5-10% for every minute that is delayed. Even under ideal circumstances, 30-40% of patients survive but many also develop residual neurological deficits because of anoxia. Full recovery is rare. ## Complications - Anoxic brain injury - Post defibrillation arrhythmias - Injuries from CPR and resuscitation - Skin burns - Long terms disabilities - Myocardial injury - Death ## Consultations Consultations should include cardiology, electrophysiology, and interventional cardiology. ## Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes Cardiac arrest is a near-death experience impacting not only the patient but family members too. A variety of health care professionals should be involved from the onset of arrest up to hospital discharge. Studies have continuously demonstrated the importance of Interprofessional communication and teamwork while resuscitating patients. Successful resuscitation is an outcome of good communication and understanding your responsibilities. (LOE-1) Physicians, nurses, pharmacists, laboratory technicians all come together and commit to the success of the team. Post-resuscitation care brings further contributions from consultants such as a cardiologist, electrophysiologists, and neurologists. These patients need close monitoring by the nurses as recurrence of VF is high. In addition, the patient should be assessed for complications like aspiration, CPR related injuries, renal failure, and brain anoxic damage Unfortunately, mortality associated with VF/SCA remains high. Involving family in every step of management is pivotal as it helps in providing a holistic picture. Seeking help from chapel when deciding about goals of care can help the family make difficult decisions. Mild hypothermia has been shown