HIV - Inherited diseases of diminished immune competency The aforementioned may result in increased susceptibility to viral pneumonia. **Comorbid circumstances** _-_ A number of comorbid circumstances can predispose patients to viral pneumonia including: - Trauma - Severe burns - Uncontrolled diabetes - Malnutrition - Poverty - Environmental exposure - Group living ## Pathophysiology On a macroscopic level, viral pneumonia can occur through one of three mechanisms: 1. Direct inoculation of viral particle into the lung (e.g., RSV or influenza) 1. Spread in a contiguous fashion from viral infections near the upper respiratory tract (e.g., measles) 1. Hematogenous spread from a distant viral infection (e.g., CMV) On a microscopic level, the general pattern of viral pneumonia pathogenesis is as follows. Note that individual viral species causing pneumonia will have some variation from this scheme. - The target cell is the pneumocyte with resultant alveolar damage. - The submucosa of the alveoli is targeted, causing inflammation and secondary edema, microhemorrhage, and cellular immune reaction. - The cellular reaction consists of mononuclear lymphocytes and progresses to PMNs recruitment. - Fibrin is released. - Both CD4 and CD8 cells are involved, beginning a cascade of immune product secretion that can end in increased vascular permeability and resultant edema. - This process may lead to intra-alveolar organization and an obliterans clinical picture. - The far end of the spectrum of the process includes interstitial pneumonia, pulmonary edema, and cardiogenic shock. ## History and Physical There are no pathognomonic history cues for the diagnosis of viral pneumonia as opposed to bacterial pneumonia. However, cues are suggestive in the differential diagnosis of viral pneumonia: - Gradual onset as opposed to the sudden onset of symptoms. - Lower temperature - Lack of purulent sputum - History of immunosuppression - Prodromal viral upper respiratory tract illness - History of HIV - History of solid organ transplantation or hematopoietic transplantation - History of neoplasm - Concomitant flu symptoms - Concomitant gastrointestinal symptoms There are no pathognomonic physical examination findings for the diagnosis of viral pneumonia as opposed to bacterial pneumonia. However, physical findings are suggestive in the differential diagnosis of viral pneumonia: - Tachycardia or tachypnea out of proportion to the temperature - Temperature elevation disproportionately low to the level of debility - Concomitant upper respiratory tract infection - Rash - The paucity of physical findings on pulmonary exam disproportionate to the level of debility - Bilateral positive lung findings