- Close contact exposures (military barracks, college dorms) - Incomplete vaccinations - Immunosuppression - Children younger than five years and adults older than 65 years - Alcohol use disorder One should try to determine a history of exposures, sexual contact, animal contact, previous neurosurgical intervention, recent travel, and the season. Most viral cases tend to occur in the warmer months. In adults, the physical exam is centered on identifying focal neurologic deficits, meningeal irritation (Brudzinski and Kernig signs), and particularly in meningococcal meningitis, characteristic skin lesions (petechiae and purpura). Cranial nerve abnormalities are seen in 10%-20% of patients. Signs and symptoms are less evident in neonates and infants. They can present with and without fever or hypothermia, decreased oral intake, altered mental status, irritability, bulging fontanelle. It is important to obtain a full perinatal history and vaccine records. Some causes of meningitis are vaccine-preventable such as Pneumococcus, _Haemophilus influenzae_ type B, Meningococcus, Measles, and Varicella-virus. ## Evaluation Meningitis is diagnosed through cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis, which includes white blood cell count, glucose, protein, culture, and in some cases, polymerase chain reaction (PCR). CSF is obtained via a lumbar puncture (LP), and the opening pressure can be measured. [10][11][12] Additional testing should be performed tailored on suspected etiology: - Viral: Multiplex and specific PCRs - Fungal: CSF fungal culture, India ink stain for _Cryptococcus_ - Mycobacterial: CSF Acid-fast bacilli smear and culture - Syphilis: CSF VDRL - Lyme disease: CSF _burgdorferi_ antibody The CSF findings expected in bacterial, viral, and fungal meningitis are listed in the chart: Expected CSF findings in bacterial versus viral versus fungal meningitis. Ideally, the CSF sample should be obtained before initiating antimicrobials. However, when the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis is seriously considered, and the patient is severely ill, antibiotics should be initiated before performing the LP. **Computed Tomography (CT) of the Head before Lumbar Puncture** There is controversy regarding the adage that the lumbar puncture is the inciting event causing brain herniation and death in the setting of increased intracranial pressure caused by acute bacterial meningitis. Currently, guidelines recommend empiric antibiotics and supportive care, while forgoing the lumbar puncture if there is clinical suspicion of increased intracranial pressure or impending brain herniation. Signs and symptoms of impending herniation include: - Glasgow coma scale (GCS) less than 11 - Lethargy - Altered mental status - New-onset seizures - Focal neurologic deficit It is important to note that